DATABASE NEEDS OF THE ARABIDOPSIS COMMUNITYI. VENUE AND PARTICIPANTS To assess the current and future database needs of the Arabidopsis community, an NSF-supported workshop on this topic was convened in Madison Wisconsin on June 28, 1998. The workshop participants included the following individuals: Rick Amasino, University of WisconsinMary Anderson, Nottingham UniversityMike Cherry, Stanford UniversityJoanne Chory, Salk InstituteMaarten Chrispeels, University of California San DiegoJeff Dangl, University of North CarolinaKeith Davis, Ohio State UniversityAllan Dickerman, National Center for Genome ResearchDavid Flanders, Stanford UniversityPam Green, Michigan State UniversityBertrand Lemieux, University of DelawareDavid Meinke, Oklahoma State UniversityLarry Parnell, Cold Spring Harbor LaboratoryDaphne Preuss, University of ChicagoRalph Quatrano, Washington UniversityErnie Retzel, University of MinnesotaSteve Rounsley, The Institute for Genomic ResearchRandy Scholl, Ohio State UniversityChris Somerville, Carnegie Institution of Washington and Stanford University (chair)Desh Pal Verma, Ohio State University The following individuals provided valuable written comments prior to the meeting (Appendix I): Jean Greenberg, University of ChicagoKatie Krolikowski, Harvard UniversityRussell Malmberg, University of GeorgiaJose Martinez-Zapater, Biology Molecular y Virologia Vegetal, CIT-INIANatasha Raikhel, Michigan State UniversityPierre Rouze, Flanders Institute of BiotechnologyChris Town, Case Western Reserve UniversityDesh Pal S Verma, The Ohio State UniversityIn addition, the workshop was attended by the following observers: Peter Bretting, USDA/ARS National Program StaffGreg Dilworth, Department of EnergyMachi Dilworth, National Science FoundationMargarita Garcia, Stanford UniversityPaul Gilna, National Science FoundationXiaoying Lin, The Institute for Genomic ResearchBob MacDonald, US Department of AgricultureDeLill Nasser, National Science Foundation II. GOALS The general goals of the workshop were to examine the present and future database needs of the Arabidopsis community and to outline in general terms the main issues which should be addressed in any future proposals concerning the development of new or expanded Arabidopsis databases. The discussions were intentionally focused on biological and community issues and there was no attempt to define or specify issues which are related to specific computer hardware or specific database programs. In particular, no assumptions were made concerning continued government funding of any current Arabidopsis database activities. A previous workshop with these goals was held on June 5th and 6th, 1993. A copy of the published summary that workshop was provided to all participants and served as a reference to earlier views and objectives of the Arabidopsis community. [1993 Dallas Workshop Report] In addition, participants were provided with a draft summary of a BBSRC-USDA bilateral plant bioinformatics and coordination meeting held at Llangollen Wales, March 22-24, 1998. A copy of a memorandum, dated February 26, 1998, from the North American Arabidopsis Steering Committee to the curators of AtDB, concerning the current Arabidopsis community database needs was also provided. [NAASC Memorandum] Finally, in preparation for the meeting, written comments solicited from the community on the Arabidopsis electronic newsgroup were provided to the participants before the meeting. A copy of the solicitation and written comments are appended as Appendix I. III. RATIONALE FOR AN ARABIDOPSIS DATABASE The genomes of higher plants, such as Arabidopsis, contain approximately 25,000 genes. During the next several years, the sequence of the Arabidopsis genome will be completed and extensive sequence information will become available for many other species, including many plants. Most or all of the Arabidopsis genes will be used to develop gene chips or microarrays that permit simultaneous measurements of the expression (mRNA levels) of all of the genes. These will be used to generate information about the expression of all the genes in the organism in response to a wide variety of treatments and genetic backgrounds. Each experiment could have as many as 25,000 data points for each time point or treatment of each genotype! Comprehensive libraries of insertional mutations will permit the isolation, by reverse genetics, of null mutations in any Arabidopsis gene. Extensive collections of enhancer-trap or promoter-trap lines are being developed that permit sensitive analyses of the spatial patterns of gene expression down to the single-cell level. Thousands of new classes of mutants will be isolated by selecting for suppressors or enhancers of existing mutations. The corresponding genes will be cloned by very high resolution mapping of the mutations so that a limited number of candidate genes which are evident in the delimited region of genomic sequence can be directly tested for complementation. This will depend on the development of very high resolution maps. It seems likely that high resolution proteomics methods will become important for identifying the substrates of the thousands of kinase genes that form many of the regulatory networks in Arabidopsis and other plants. Additionally, extensive genomic-based work in other plant species will produce a flood of sequence information. The value of much of that information will be greatly enhanced by comparison with the aggregate information available in Arabidopsis. Thus, we are entering an era of explosive growth of knowledge about Arabidopsis in particular, and plants in general. Most of the data generated by the projects described above will never appear in printed journals and will only be available to the community through electronic databases. Because Arabidopsis is one of the most intensively studied organisms, and is a direct model for 250,000 closely related species, we believe that it is appropriate to undertake a major investment in developing new information retrieval tools (IRTs) for Arabidopsis in particular and plants in general. By this we mean that because we will know everything about Arabidopsis, it is a suitable object on which to focus the building of a comprehensive database or set of linked databases. However, because the value of Arabidopsis derives from its utility in understanding other plants, it would be desirable to build a structure that permits facile high resolution linking of specific information about Arabidopsis to all other plants. Looking into the future more generally, it is apparent that scientific publishing is undergoing a much needed revolution. All of the major journals will be electronic within a few years and once that transition is complete, scientists will develop new tools for interacting with data. The complexity of biological knowledge in many fields is such that new mechanisms for integrating data are required. The development of computer programs that calculate genetic maps "on the fly" from currently available data is an early example of what will become a more general mechanism for integrating data. Integrated graphical representations of patterns of gene expression in individual cells of three dimensional models of organisms at various developmental stages is another example that is under development. With such a model it will be possible to find relationships between objects (eg., genes) and processes that would be difficult or impossible with current information retrieval technologies.Because of the changes taking place in publishing, there may be an opportunity to develop databases that will eventually be self supporting in the same way that journals are self supporting. As the distinction between the format blurs, the concept of paying for a database subscription will become commonplace. However, there are many complex issues associated with imposing charges for database use and the question is largely academic at present. There are many challenges in developing a new generation database. Perhaps the foremost is the difficulty in collecting information from the thousands of scientists who produce primary information for conventional publication in journals. IV. CURRENT PUBLICLY SUPPORTED DATABASE ACTIVITIES The principal publicly supported Arabidopsis database activities are the AtDB database at Stanford University and the stock center databases maintained by the Arabidopsis resource centers at Ohio State University and the University of Nottingham. In addition, the University of Minnesota supports an EST database for all plants, and each of the Arabidopsis genome sequencing groups provides database access to genomic sequences, including BAC end sequences. The AtDB goal is to provide the plant-biology research community with convenient and correlated access to the publicly available results of Arabidopsis research. This includes published and otherwise freely available information about the genome, the genes it contains, the gene products, their positions on genetic and physical maps, as well as DNA sequences. The users of the database are very diverse, ranging from Arabidopsis molecular biologists to biologists focusing on any other organism. The members of the AtDB project are currently shared with the Saccharomyces Genome Database, and the database administrator is shared with the Expression Microarray database and Genetic Footprinting database projects, all located at the Department of Genetics at Stanford University. In an effort to minimize wasteful duplication of effort, the AtDB project uses much of the same software and staffing structure as the Saccharomyces Genome Database (SGD). The combined SGD and AtDB groups thus benefit from an economy of scale by sharing computing and human resources. At a meeting of the Arabidopsis genome community in 1992 at the Cold Spring Harbor Banbury Center, a consensus was reached that AtDB should take responsibility for providing centralized access to Arabidopsis databases, a recommendation that has been repeatedly endorsed by the North American Arabidopsis Steering Committee. Since that time AtDB has been supported by a grant from the National Science Foundation. However, the annual level of support for AtDB has been only a small fraction of the support provided for database activities for similarly advanced models such as Drosophila, yeast and mouse. V. SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS *	The main conclusions from the workshop were consistent with the conclusions of the 1993 workshop. *	The Arabidopsis community has a large number of unmet needs for database services that are required to make efficient use of existing information. The highest priorities for database content are: *	Integration of the physical map and genetic map *	Detailed and consistent annotation of the genomic sequence *	Gene chip and DNA microarray data *	Information about forward and reverse genetics *	Spatial and temporal information about gene expression and tools for visualizing such information. *	Protein localization and proteomics *	Phenotypic information about mutants *	Federal government support for increased Arabidopsis database capabilities is of crucial importance to continuing progress in understanding all aspects of plant biology. This knowledge is a vital component of the mechanisms that support continuing agricultural productivity, environmental stewardship and development of a robust agricultural biotechnology industry. Support for such databases should be long-term and contingent upon guarantees that all information in the databases will be freely available to the international scientific community. *	The main focus of Arabidopsis database activities should be service components. However, in those cases where publicly available computer programs do not meet the needs of the Arabidopsis community, adequate resources should be made available to support the development of components that are required to fully implement the service functions of Arabidopsis databases. *	Arabidopsis databases should provide an intellectual focus for the interpretation, synthesis and integration of biological data. The value of such a resource will be proportional to the ability of the databases to acquire all relevant data. Since past experience has indicated that it is not feasible to rely on the community to submit all useful information to databases, the Arabidopsis databases must be professionally curated by paid curators. In addition, mechanisms must be explored for obtaining data directly from authors in conjunction with publication in journals. The development of user friendly internet-accessible data entry forms that would allow direct deposit of information by members of the community into public databases must also be pursued. *	US Arabidopsis databases activities must be linked to the community through an oversight committee that includes representation from, and is approved by, the North American Steering Committee. *	Arabidopsis databases must be accessible internationally via the internet using commonly available internet browsers. *	Although all Arabidopsis information need not be archived in a single database, it is essential that all Arabidopsis databases be able to seamlessly communicate with each other and with other major databases, such as the nucleic acid databases. *	Because the databases are a world resource, an effort should be made to coordinate the development of Arabidopsis database activities internationally with a view to sharing the costs of curation and development of new tools. *	It is not desirable or appropriate to attempt to implement partial or complete cost recovery of Arabidopsis database services in the forseeble future. *	An encyclopedic database which interrelates all aspects of Arabidopsis biology remains an attractive long-term goal. VI. WHAT SHOULD BE IN THE DATABASES? The long-term goal is to provide interconnected access to all information about Arabidopsis. However, certain classes of information should have a higher priority for immediate inclusion and also require a high degree of curation in order to be most useful to the community. A. Map-Based Information At present, many laboratories are engaged in cloning genes by map-based cloning methods. The use of map-based cloning is expected to continue indefinitely and to become the most widely used method of cloning genes in the future. The ease with which this can be accomplished is directly proportional to the availability of information about genetic and physical maps, polymorphisms, and large clones. Thus, the greatest current need is a unified genetic and physical map that incorporates all available information about polymorphic markers (eg. CAPS, SSLPs, RFLPs), mutations, BAC and YAC clones, mapped clones and insertions or other modifications of the genome. Because of the pending completion of the genomic sequence, the state of the genetic map is expected to change dramatically during the next several years as sequence-based markers become anchored on the genomic sequence. The availability of the sequence information will enhance the value of the integrated map because it will stimulate map-based cloning efforts which will remain dependent on a high density of polymorphic markers. The integration of the genetic and physical maps should be undertaken by a group with appropriate expertise in both genetic and physical maps and database management and curation. Ready, access to primary mapping data should be given highest priority in database development. Map information should be collected and presented in a manner that allows the user to determine what is known, plus what remains questionable or unresolved with respect to map locations of genetic and molecular markers in combination with a complete physical map anchored to the complete nucleotide sequence. In constructing the database, it should be remembered that recombination data generally provide only rough estimates of map location, and that mapping data may differ widely in quality and reliability. Therefore, some database users may prefer direct access to primary mapping data in order to compare their results with those obtained in other laboratories. A database that provides options for visualizing several different maps constructed with different mapping functions or subsets of markers and primary mapping data would be particularly valuable to the Arabidopsis community. Any proposal for database development should also discuss in some detail how the integrity of these maps would be verified and maintained. Some mutations and cloned genes are likely to be known by several different names. It will therefore be important to establish a database that will accommodate multiple changes in nomenclature. Other plant databases are moving toward the use of standard gene names as described in the Mendel database. The Arabidopsis databases should also adopt this policy to ensure compatibility with other databases. Provisions should also be made to add new types of information to genetic and physical maps as they become available (break points of chromosomal aberrations; regions of extensive heterochromatin; regions with a high/low degree of sequence homology to related plants; etc.). B. Sequence information The value of the genomic sequence will depend on the quality of the annotation. The goal for the quality of annotation should be similar or identical to that of other higher organisms. It should be possible to arrive at an integrated map of a gene by various routes. A user should be able to begin a query with a sequence, a gene name, a keyword or a genetic map location. A user should be able to highlight a region of the genome on a graphical display and move to increasingly higher levels of resolution with the click of a mouse. For example, one might start with a whole chromosome, then move to a ~10 cM region which shows the contigs of BACs and YACs, the mapped mutations, the sites of insertional mutations or launching pads for transposons. Next the user should be able to visualize a ~1 cm region showing all of the above features plus the locations of open reading frames (theoretical and verified), ESTs, polymorphic markers, potentially polymorphic markers (ie,. SSLPs). Finally, at the next level of resolution the user should be able to visualize the DNA sequence, the various putative open reading frames indicated by gene finding programs, experimentally verified genes, ESTs, BAC and YAC end sequences, polymorphisms, mutations and other known aberrations. The open reading frames should be linked to information about gene expression, experimentally verified information about gene function, mutant phenotypes associated with classical mutations or over or under expression, theoretical information about gene function based on inference from other organisms, subcellular localization of the gene product, known or predicted modifications of the gene product. If there are other genes of similar structure in the genome, the presence of these genes should be indicated. Similarity to genes from other plants should be indicated with a link to the appropriate databases. The control regions of the genes should be annotated with known or predicted motifs and with information about the identity of other genes with similar motifs. The sequence information should not simply be a link to raw sequence in GenBank because the level of annotation and tools to manipulate that sequence do not directly support the kinds of queries made by most biologists. Thus, the sequence should be directly available from a specialized database which provides useful tools for manipulating the sequence. It should be possible to retrieve from the database sequence information based on map position, type of sequence, or other specific requirements. All information should be linked to publications describing the data when possible. Because the sequencing groups are not expected to have the resources to provide continued annotation, there will be a need for a group to take responsibility for continued upgrading of the annotation of the genomic sequence as information about the sequence becomes available from direct experimentation and from computational analyses based on experimental results obtained with other organisms. C. Expression information The use of microarrays and gene chips are expected to provide a massive amount of new information. Most or all of the Arabidopsis genes will be used to develop gene chips or microarrays that permit simultaneous measurements of the expression (mRNA levels) of all of the genes. These will be used to generate information about the expression of all the genes in the organism in response to a wide variety of treatments and genetic backgrounds. Each time point or treatment could have as many as 25,000 data points. Because the experiments are technically straightforward, it seems likely that a common type of experiment will be to prepare mRNA from a mutant and a wild type and to compare the consequences of the mutation on the expression of all the genes in the organism. In addition to simply archiving the raw data it should be possible to query the data in various ways. For instance, as data from different treatment accumulates, it will become possible to search for genes that are coregulated with a gene. This kind of query may provide insights into the identity of otherwise anonymous genes or reveal the existence of networks. It should also be possible to identify all the factors that cause altered expression of a gene, to identify all genes that specifically respond to certain treatments, to identify mutations that cause similar effects on gene expression. For these kinds of queries it will be necessary to have software that can identify data sets that are most similar from among hundreds or thousands of different data sets produced by different treatments. There is also a large need for a repository for information about spatial aspects of gene expression. There are now many transgenic lines which exhibit specific spatial patterns of reporter gene expression, and cloned genes which confer such patterns. In the short term a database with a controlled vocabulary for the various cell and tissue types and linked images of the patterns of gene expression would meet immediate needs. In the longer term, it would be useful to have graphical tools that would integrate the patterns of gene expression into an organismic model. D. Phenotypic Information Because of the diversity of processes that are being analyzed by a mutational approach in Arabidopsis, there is a need for facile access to information about gene function as it relates to the organism. One aspect of the problem involves determining the genetic basis for a phenotype. In this case it should be possible to enter a description of a phenotype and obtain a ranked list of probable genetic alteration that could give rise to the phenotype. Conversely, it would be very helpful to be able to enter a gene name and obtain a description of the corresponding mutant. This capability will greatly enhance the efficiency with which new mutations will be studied as the number of known mutations begins to plateau. It is expected that we will soon have saturating collections of transposon mutants, so having ways of describing these phenotypes, and making them accessible, will be important. No capability of this kind currently exists. One strategy may be to use organizational schemes as entry points (phenotypic indexes, so to speak). One such index is the genetic map position. Knowledge of this provides an entry point to other mutants and papers. Another possible organizing scheme could be based on the EcoCyc database format of metabolic pathways, so that biochemical phenotypes could be correlated, or the knowledge of existing pathways could be queried. The user would click on a pathway and learn what was known about this. Another way of indexing and accessing the data for development might be to have a standardized Arabidopsis growth animation - at appropriate times during the growth animation, a user could click on a graphic representation of an organ or other feature, and then this would lead to additional information. Clicking on a rosette leaf might lead to various types of leaf cells or indexed leaf morphologies. E. Stock-Based Information The databases maintained by the two Arabidopsis resource centers at Ohio State University and the University of Nottingham provide excellent access to information on the availability of biological and chemical materials related to Arabidopsis research. These databases have implemented many of the recommendations of the 1993 workshop report and should continue to assume responsibility for descriptive information concerning seed stocks, clones, vectors, libraries, cDNAs, oligonucleotides, and any other materials that may require distribution to the Arabidopsis community. Emphasis should be placed on careful documentation of biological materials, controlled vocabularies, and maximal utilization of sophisticated graphics to display plant phenotypes, molecular hybridization patterns, and other data where appropriate. With respect to seed stocks, it should be possible to search the database by general phenotype, not just by gene symbol, in order to obtain a broad listing of ecotypes and mutant lines with similar features. Information on phenotypes, screening methods, growth conditions, and differences between alleles should be included for all mutants available through the stock centers. It should also be possible to obtain information on additional mutants or alleles that have been isolated in specific laboratories but are not available from the stock centers. Individuals should be able to search for specialized libraries, vectors, transgenic lines, and molecular reagents (antibodies, purified proteins, unusual compounds, and biochemical standards) required for Arabidopsis research. The stock center databases should be directly linked to a central Arabidopsis database so that queries about the properties of a gene or mutant can lead directly to a query about the availability of the resources used to study these or related aspects of the biology. F. Community-Based Information During the past several years there has been a proliferation of electronic resources that provide easy access to information on a wide range of community issues. For instance, it is now relatively easy to retrieve contact information for colleagues or previous postings on the Arabidopsis newsgroup, the abstracts for meetings are available on line and there is an electronic Arabidopsis journal, Weeds World, which provides a forum for discussion of methods and problems and publication of short papers. Many laboratories have mounted web pages that provide detailed information about specialized methods, specialized databases or collections of genetic materials. The curators of AtDB have provided convenient access to these diverse resources by providing a web page that facilitates connection to these resources. While it is desirable to continue having one group take responsibility for maintaining a centralized launcher or "data warehouse" for Arabidopsis-related web sites, this should be a relatively inexpensive activity and should not require significant public financial support. The distinction between this activity and a database does not seem to be fully appreciated by the community. The result is that, because of the proliferation of sites which are all superficially similar, the users do not know how to efficiently find information. Therefore, it may be desirable to maintain a clear distinction between a centralized internet launcher and any future attempts to develop a unified Arabidopsis database. G. Biology-Based Information The focus of research with Arabidopsis is likely to change in the future from the immediate emphasis on mapping, sequencing, and gene identification, to the long-term questions of general biology and gene function during plant growth and development. Thus, there is a long-term need to develop Arabidopsis database(s) that provide facile access to information that may be of critical importance during this second phase. In proposing a vision of the future requirements one correspondent wrote the following (Appendix I): "I envision a data base organized by levels of organization that can be addressed at different levels. This database should contain both structural and functional data organized at different levels. In this way starting, for example, with the keyword root, one can access information about root structure, root cell components, root development, nutrients uptake, etc. and end up in the interactive pathways and proteins responsible for these processes and the corresponding genes. It should also be possible to address the database by processes - for example elongation or flowering or pollination. Of course this is likely far away from real possibilities. Going down to the specifics, the information in the database could be implemented with information on pathways and networks, protein interaction maps, protein structures, subcellular organelles, cell structure, etc. This will be a way to reach to a database as described above." Examples of topics that might be included in this category, include: information on plant pathogens that infect Arabidopsis and details on the molecular interactions that take place between host and pathogen; information on the chemical composition of specific plant parts (sugars, lipids, proteins, polysaccharides, specialized compounds, etc.); physiological data on the normal life cycle and the response of mutant and wild-type plants to various environmental and experimental treatments; protein profiles of different plant parts revealed through 2-D gel electrophoresis; information on the natural distribution and ecology of Arabidopsis and closely related species; detailed comparisons of the different ecotypes with respect to morphology, physiology, and molecular biology; information on the taxonomy of Arabidopsis with particular attention to related plants used in agriculture; light and electron micrographs of different types of cells in wild-type plants; records of expression patterns of specific genes during growth and development; and computer-enhanced reconstructions of serial sections through various plant structures. At present it appears that the development of these resources will be best accomplished by the individual initiative of members of the community with specific knowledge and interests in specialized information of the kinds described above. The eventual integration of specialized databases of this type into a unified Arabidopsis database will be facilitated by encouraging the open exchange of schema between database developers. Therefore, public support for Arabidopsis databases should be contingent on unrestricted access to all schema and source code used in Arabidopsis databases. VII. STANDARDS FOR QUALITY OF DATA All data that is acquired by the databases should be available to users. However, where data is suspect or in conflict with other data, it may be desirable or necessary to provide various views of data. Thus, it may be desirable to provide a user with a curated version of a certain kind of data and an uncurated version. A specific example might be in the interpretation of open reading frames. Since the various gene finder programs do not always make the same prediction, it should be possible to provide the curators best guess as one view and the various alternatives as another view. A simple tab associated with each view would provide a convenient tool for meeting this need. It is also desirable to provide access to the primary mapping data used to position mutations and genes on the genetic map. Publication of data should not be a prerequisite for inclusion in the databases. Indeed, the vast majority of data is unlikely to ever be available via traditional publishing methods. VIII. HOW WILL THE DATABASE BE USED? WHAT LINKS SHOULD BE MADE BETWEEN CATEGORIES OF INFORMATION? In addition to the specific ability to perform searches as described in the previous sections, the categories of information must be linked with user friendly interfaces. To facilitate maximal utility of Arabidopsis databases, there is a need to develop a standard interface for access to Arabidopsis genomic sequence information. All information must have the name of the individuals that provided the data. Attention should be paid to tight coordination between the genetic map and related genes, clones, and sequences, so that selection of any of these will lead transparently to accession of the others. Also, it is highly desirable for the database to have simple links for comparative sequence and mutant analysis with other plants and beyond that, with all organisms. The interface should allow viewing in a variety of ways. As examples of the types of links desired, we list below a series of questions that the system should be able to answer. (1) If a user enters two cloned markers, the system should return a list of all markers of a specified type that map between them. (2) If a user points to a location on a genetic map, the genes, clones, and sequences should appear. Likewise, a user should be able to derive map position if a DNA sequence is used as the starting point. (3) For any gene, the expression pattern of the RNA encoded, by the clone should be readily accessed. Since information may be available about how the expression of the gene changes with different treatments, or in different mutants, it will be necessary to allow the user to define a set of comparator genes that can serve as standards. If available, links to spatially resolved information should be available as images. (4) If a user finds a mutant that is altered in a particular way, the system should retrieve all mutants altered in a similar manner. A cross-species accession to similar mutants in other plants might be useful. (5) It should be possible for a user to rapidly determine the map positions for all genes in a given biochemical or developmental pathway. (6) If a user has new mapping information, the system should have the ability to download archived data in that region for manipulation. IX. COMMUNITY ISSUES THAT MUST BE CONSIDERED IN THE DESIGN AND OPERATION OF THE DATABASE A. Advisory Committee All Arabidopsis database proposals should include a provision for an oversight committee that will represent the community of Arabidopsis researchers and will advise database investigators on priorities and data to be included. The oversight committee should also include individuals with technical expertise in database design and management. It may also be desirable to have representation from individuals involved in development and operation of other plant databases. In order to maximize accountability, it would be desirable to have the oversight committee formally approved by the North American Arabidopsis Steering Committee (NASC). B. Curation, Entry, Correction, and Long-Term storage of Data One of the major problems associated with developing a database is collecting data. Because database deposits do not currently generate a citation for inclusion in an individuals vita, there is no incentive to make the effort to deposit data. One mechanisms for encouraging deposits may be to implement a citation system for database deposits which would resemble those currently used for journal publications (ie., Author, title, date, accession number). The task of data acquisition would be greatly facilitated if the journals would require authors to make deposits of data directly into appropriate databases at the time of publication in much the same way that all journals now require GenBank accession numbers. There was unanimous agreement that this would be a desirable development and there are indications that at least some of the plant journals are willing to implement such a change. Future proposals should include a plan for creating user-friendly interfaces that can be used by the authors of journal articles to enter data directly into an internet accessible form. Such forms could also be used by members of the community to enter unpublished data into the database. There was broad enthusiasm for a requirement that anyone receiving public research support be obliged by the funding agencies to describe how the data and research materials from previous supported research have been made available to the stock centers and databases. Previous attempts to acquire data by soliciting input from the community have been generally unsuccessful and curation of data by the community is not considered feasible. Thus, the Arabidopsis databases must be curated by professional curators. Professional curators of Arabidopsis databases should make every effort to leverage the database activities undertaken elsewhere and to adapt existing software when appropriate for use in the Arabidopsis research community. Thus, the major activity of Arabidopsis databases should be the collection, entry, and correction of data rather than writing software for storing, retrieval, and presentation of data. It is clear from past experience that full time professional curators are required for the development and operation of an adequate database. In order to recruit and retain highly skilled personnel to develop and operate the Arabidopsis databases, it is essential that there be a reasonable expectation of stable long- term funding. C. Relation to Other Databases and Programs All Arabidopsis databases should use industry-standard hardware and software, so that they are both compatible with and can communicate transparently with other data bases. However, as stated elsewhere in this report, the primary goal should be to collect and store data using currently accepted database models rather than to develop new database software. The most important principle, therefore, in the design of next generation databases is that the data be entered in a form that makes it possible to interface easily with other databases and which makes the data portable to future generation database software. Any software that is written specifically for an Arabidopsis database (display of genetic maps, for example) should be layered and use industry standard interfaces so that the software, as well as the underlying data, is also compatible with and portable to future generation databases. In adition, consideration should be given to production of generic database structures that can be used for a variety of different organisms. Databases are currently being developed for most plants of economic significance. Because all higher plants are very closely related and are thought to contain a similar basic gene set, the information in these databases can be readily interrelated by biological criteria. However, because of the various concerns of the groups developing other plant databases, and because of the different kinds and amount of information available, it is not feasible at this time to consider a common database structure that would accommodate Arabidopsis and other plants. Therefore, in order to facilitate future interconnectivity between the Arabidopsis databases and other plant databases, a concerted effort must be made to adopt common standards whenever possible. The use of the Mendel gene nomenclature conventions is a case in point. The developers of Arabidopsis databases should be informed about major activities with other plants and wherever possible should endeavor to share software. D. Access of Databases Data accumulated by a publicly funded database should be community property. There should be no restrictions on the availability of the data in the databases and they must be accessible internationally by the internet. E. One or Several Databases? It is desirable to facilitate full expression of the collective genius of the world Arabidopsis community. Because talent in bioinformatics and enthusiasm for Arabidopsis is distributed around the world, and because of the ease with which databases can communicate via the internet, a distributed database should be the goal. However, based on past experience, the users experience difficulty if information is fragmented or presented in a variety of different interfaces. Thus, the current situation in which users must navigate six separate databases to view genome sequence information is unacceptable. Bringing all genome sequence annotation into a common format should have a top priority. Thus, if there are several databases, each should have a clear and defined subset of the database task, and appropriate links to the others. It is imperative that they be integrated and that the staff operating the different databases be committed to cooperating with each other. Unrestricted access to all schema and source codes should be a requirement for public support. The goal should be to have a single user interface for a specific class of information. Proposals requesting support for database development must address this issue. F. Education The ADB investigators should be provided funding for the provision of community education and training. This would include the development of on-line help, training manuals, workshops, and short courses. The ADB developers should maintain complete documentation and source code. This information should be in the public domain. Because educators and students in higher education (including high-school students) may make use of ADB, sufficient documentation for non-sophisticated users should be made available. G. Financial Support for Arabidopsis Databases Although there is a general willingness of most members of the community to pay directly for database services in much the same way that journal subscriptions are currently purchased, it was concluded that the disadvantages of imposing charges outweigh the likely benefits for the foreseeable future. Thus, at present, it would be inappropriate to impose charges for the use of publicly supported databases. As with other organism-specific databases, the burden of funding must be borne by government agencies. In order to retain highly qualified database curators and developers, there must be reasonable assurance of continuing support. H. Ownership of Databases Because of the convergence of electronic publishing and database activities, potential liability issues, and because of the intrinsic value of established databases, consideration needs to be given to the legal ownership of databases. At present, databases developed with US federal grants are the property of the institutions that administer the grants. Because of the importance of ensuring unrestricted public access to Arabidopsis databases, proposals for funding of future database activities should provide assurances that institutional policies are consistent with the continuing need for free unrestricted access. X. WHAT DESIGN-FEATURE ISSUES NEED TO BE CONSIDERED? The design considerations for Arabidopsis databases are essentially unchanged from the 1993 workshop report. One of the most pressing needs reported was for improved graphical visualization tools for various forms of data. A. Design Considerations that Should be Discussed in any Proposal: *	Any field upon which a user might be expected to initiate a search should contain controlled-vocabulary entries. *	Data must always be in a form that will be portable to new database systems, and new computers and computer types. Current industry trends are towards layered software systems and client-server databases. *	All data should be available for bulk access or bulk downloading, as discussed above. *	The database I should have update information on its own contents: date/time coding should be considered for all data and links between data, so that update data can be obtained by users on a regular basis. *	The database should contain cross-references to all other relevant databases (eg., GenBank Nucleotide Sequence Database; Arabidopsis thaliana stock center database; Cell and/or probe repository catalogue number(s); and Genetic map databases for species showing significant synteny with Arabidopsis thaliana). *	To ensure the development of a robust and stable production quality system, the database should be based upon readily available, proven software. *	To facilitate inter-database linking, and referencing of items in the database in an unambiguous manner for publications and other reports, and to ensure the long- term ready availability of the data in the database, primary entities ("unit records") should be identified by public, unchanging unique identifiers (accession numbers). *	The database structure should be described in a data dictionary or repository which would be available to database users *	To facilitate user and developer access, the database should be maintained on a computer (or network of computers) which is connected to the internet. B. Research Goals Developers should consider and propose to carry out some short-term research relevant to improving the quality of the Arabidopsis thaliana database. Some possibilities for short-term research would be: *	Develop methods for defining and controlling differential access to the data. *	Develop a means for providing an audit trail, or other historical record, of all changes to the database. *	Investigate methods for, facilitating inter-database interactions and connections. *	Develop a stable, documented application program interface (APT) to the database. *	Develop a method for representing variations in data quality and for recording uncertainty. *	Develop means for integration of physical mapping data with genetic and cytogenetic maps. *	Develop means for providing ready user access to underlying supporting data (maintained in remote laboratory databases) through -the database on-line user interface. *	Develop improvements in data presentation, including graphical representation of maps. C. Possible Long-Term Research Goals *	Investigate new database systems and new data models. *	Monitor advances in hardware improvement and develop plans for using new hardware to improve the quality of the database. ------------------------------------------------------------------------APPENDIX I As one mechanism for obtaining input form the Arabidopsis community, the following message was posted to the Arabidopsis electronic newsgroup on June 11, 1998. The written responses to this posting follow. To:		arab-gen@net.bio.netSubject:	Arabidopsis database needsDate:		Thu, 11 Jun 1998 18:51:50 GMT-8As part of an analysis of the current and future needs for publicArabidopsis (and other plant) database(s), I am writing to requestyour advice, comments and concerns about current and futureArabidopsis (and other plant) databases. The motivation and scope forthis request is briefly as follows:Access to the wide range of genetic resources and informationavailable for Arabidopsis is currently provided through a range ofelectronic databases that can be located by starting a web search atthe AtDB web page maintained by Mike Cherry, Dave Flanders andcolleagues. Rapid progress toward complete genome sequencing, thepending proliferation of DNA microarray capabilities and many otherdevelopments are expected to greatly increase the magnitude andcomplexity of information that will be available. Therefore it seemsan appropriate time to evaluate what kind of information resourceswill allow us (the plant biology community) to most efficientlyutilize the vast amount of information that is accumulating forArabidopsis (and other plants).In 1993 the Arabidopsis steering committee and a group of consultantsproduced a report for NSF that identified the Arabidopsis databaseneeds envisioned at that time. On behalf of the steering committee andNSF, I have organized a similar small workshop which will be held inMadison on June 28 to reevaluate the current and future needs and toprepare a new report for NSF. Since the goal of the workshop is toidentify current and future needs and opportunities, I invite everyoneto send me comments and suggestions before June 24 on the followingdiscussion topics or any related issues. I would be particularlyinterested in receiving some "visionary" ideas about what suchdatabases could look like in the year 2008 so that we know what to aimfor. I will collate the response, present it to the participants atthe workshop and post it to the newsgroup. The report from theworkshop will also be posted to the newsgroup for comments before itis finalized. When the needs of the community have been identified,there will be a second small workshop involving primarily colleagueswith technical expertise in database design and implementation whowill provide additional input on how to achieve the goals identifiedby the community.Here are some of the issues to be discussed at the June 28th workshop:What should be in the Arabidopsis database and what is a reasonabletime frame for achieving coverage of various types of information?Who should curate the database(s)? How should information becollected?What should the goals be with respect to obtaining data from journalsat the time of publication? (ie., should we ask the journals toimplement a database accession requirement similar to the Genbankrequirement)Who should "own" the Arabidopsis (or other species) databases, and howshould management and advisory committees be selected and appointed?Is it feasible and desirable to build one database structure that willmeet the needs for all plants? How can information on other species bemost easily linked to the Arabidopsis database?How can the database be made financially self-supporting? (i.e., wecannot depend on continued federal support for such activities)Is it desirable to have one database or many?What problems do you currently encounter with access to information?How could these problems be solved?I look forward to receiving your comments.Thanks, Chris Somerville------------------------------------------------------------------------RESPONSES FROM THE COMMUNITYResponse 1As indicated in your introductory comments, the Arabidopsis databaseis in reality not a single database, but rather a web site thatprovides access to the database proper, to various kinds of textdocuments etc. and links to many other related and useful sites. Insome peoples' terminology, it is more like a data warehouse, wheredata is collected from other sources and maintained in a single sitefor convenience of access and manipulation.  This might be a good timeto begin to use appropriate terminology for the different parts of theArabidopsis Information Arena.What should be in the Arabidopsis database and what is a reasonabletime frame for achieving coverage of various types of information?The most important things in the database are those that cannot befound elsewhere or can be found elsewhere only by synthesis ofinformation from more than one source. The best examples of this arethe information from all the sequencing projects, the various maps andall the DNA clones that underlie the data. The "locus" entity is animportant central point which can provide the entry point to accessmany features of every known locus (genetic or physical) on theArabidopsis genome. The data in many of the tables in AtDB has notbeen updated since the switch from AtDB. In the meanwhile, the numberof entities in "Locus", for example, has more than doubled and theassociated information increased even more. It will require one ormore curator years to bring this table up to date, and probably 5times this for the associated data in other tables. Serious thoughtshould be given both to streamlining the present curatorial updateprocess and to automating the addition of new data entities. Maybethree years with 2-3 curators would be a reasonable time frame.Who should curate the database(s)? How should information becollected?It is probably most efficient to have a group of Ph.D + level curatorslocated at a single site, as this would make best use of resources(interpersonal communication, problem solving, library access etc),although distributed curation would also be possible. The rawinformation is collected by keyword searches of Genbank, PubMed/Biosisand other web sites, and by solicitations from the community that canbe of either a specific or general nature. One of the main tasks ofcuration is to filter and assemble the data from these sources into ahomogenous whole.What should the goals be with respect to obtaining data from journalsat the time of publication? (ie., should we ask the journals toimplement a database accession requirement similar to the Genbankrequirement)All self-respecting Arabidopsis workers should feel morally obliged tosubmit data to AtDB at the time of publication (or sooner) if this isaccepted as a community standard. If it is not possible to establishan accession number arrangement, then at least the appearance ofinformation in the literature could trigger a web submission requestfrom AtDB to the responsible party.Who should "own" the Arabidopsis (or other species) databases, and howshould management and advisory committees be selected and appointed?The database should be public property, not owned either by a group ofindividuals nor by the university at which the servers reside.Is it feasible and desirable to build one database structure that willmeet the needs for all plants? How can information on other species bemost easily linked to the Arabidopsis database?While it might be desirable to have a database structure that willaccommodate the needs of many plants, this should probably arise byevolution. There is no guarantee that the people who design andimplement either the new AtDB or any other database will be rightabout everything. However, there should be a strong effort towardsestablishing controlled vocabulary and standard ways of storing data,so that cross-database manipulations are not too arduous.How can the database be made financially self-supporting? (i.e., wecannot depend on continued federal support for such activities)There should be a charge for access, just as there are now charges foruse of ABRC. This could be done either by subscription or by a fee foraccess. However, it's not clear that this would be sufficient. E.g1000 subscriptions at $100 would generate $100,000 pa, but this wouldonly support one staff person, given overheads and fringe benefitcosts. Most users, including myself, would probably balk at paying$1000 p.a. to access data, some of which they may have contributedthemselves. Libraries at universities are supported, to a largedegree, from indirect costs. However, it's not clear how individualusers could tap into their own institutions indirect costs for this. Abetter route might be via sponsorship (e.g.  from big biotechcompanies) or from advertising.Is it desirable to have one database or many?This is probably a good time to begin to distinguish between databasesper se and data warehouses/web sites. There already are many web sitesand many databases. People like to collect and manipulate data intheir area of interest. It is certainly desirable to have as muchinformation as possible accessible by as many people as possible in asseamless a manner as possible. Although a single large database mightachieve this, it would also exclude from the process people who wouldlike to be involved. One possible solution would be to establishstandard formats, define the scope of different databases and havethem both as stand-alone entities and as part of a larger whole. Thiswould, of course, then rely on internet communication forcross-database queries, which might slow down some kinds of queries orcause other problems.What problems do you currently encounter with access to information?How could these problems be solved?Information is incomplete/out of data. This is true of both the datain AtDB and the stock data in ABRC/AIMS. These problems could besolved if more personnel were available to cope with the increasingamount of data and stocks. The ABRC stock information could be betterintegrated into AtDB.What else would you like to see?A clickable plant. In the database of the future there will be aclickable plant which is a nested set of objects. Clicking on anyorgan will take you down to the tissue and cell level.  Within eachcell type you can query the level of expression of each gene for anyparticular set of environmental/growth conditions.Chris Town, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland OH------------------------------------------------------------------------Response 2What should be in the Arabidopsis database and what is a reasonabletime frame for achieving coverage of various types of information?ATDB should become a real Genome Database, ie care for & provide allthe genome-wide data available for this species, as done for severalother genomes (E coli, yeast, drosophila or human, to take widelydifferent examples) the most important feature being to provide theactive LINKS between the different kind & level of information. Inaddition it should ALSO intend to be the reference plant genomedatabase, with special emphasis on dicots and in dicots on nearbyfamilies.1. Structural information : from maps to sequences.  Here thechallenge is for the maps, to retrieve exhaustive information and keepit up to date, pointing to colleagues and to the stock center, foravailability and ordering. This is a high priority task.For the sequence, the challenge is also clear : first clean the"classical" entries for DNA and protein as well (those obtained in anexperimental way, gene after gene) which are the main solid ground forfurther annotation. At that level, the job could and should be donenot only for Arabidopsis but encompass every higher plants. For therest the annotation job should be re-done, in a homogeneous way (thepresent annotation being very different in content and quality fromone consortium to the other) using as much as possible automaticprocess but ALWAYS leaving the last hand to the human expert. This is& will remain for long a human-time consuming job, and the communityhas to face it if one wants to rely on it. Indeed, the main goal ofthis annotation is to provide the bench people as much relevant datafor further experimental job as possible, and thus to allow the userto know where the information comes from, and how solid is the groundfor annotation.  One idea (already introduced by several people) is tofollow as much as possible the SwissProt way in gathering the comments& annotations of experts from a given field/family of genes, but alsoto accept comments from anyone (and only provide it after revision). Atime scale of several years (2 to ?, depending on the number of peopleinvolved) for the first full release should be expected.  An essentialpart of the job is the proper linkage between the maps and thesequence. This is essential information for genetics, for Arabidopsisand for synteny searches. This could be done only if the properinformation is given by the authors. In the same way, as soon assequence information will be provided for insertion (or other kind of)mutants, this information should be provided in the databases, as suchand as link with mutant database.2. functional information : This information will come from differentsources : mutants, mRNA expression arrays, 2D gels/proteome. It is amajor challenge to provide the proper structure for these various kindof information to be stored and queried in the most relevant(biological/biotechnological) way. The most urgent need here is towork on this, since the individual databases are or will be madeavailable (the public ones..) individually by the scientists whoprovide the data. In parallel, information should be collectedexhaustively on regulatory elements (ie, "promoters", transcriptionalcis- acting elements & transcription factors) and classified. here isvery few information of that kind for plants in public DB yet :working on this objective could & should begin as soon as possible. Inthis section should also be provided the classification intofunctional gene & protein families3. integrated information : gene & protein networks (pathways) One ofthe main interest of exhaustive genome approaches is to improve ourknowledge on pathways (as begun to be done for metabolism in bacterialgenome, eg Ecocyc), and to suggest a network of interactinggenes. This is obviously not the first part to be done, since buildingit requires that both structural & functional information areavailable in sufficient quality and quantity. Genome-wide statisticsshould also be collected and provided there4. comparative genomics : As said above, Arabidopsis will serve for awhile as the reference plant genome, especially for dicots (since therice genome will provide better information for monocots) One sectionof ATDB should work on & provide comparative maps (for synteny) fromecotypes of Arabidopsis to more distant species, and links with thedatabases for the various plant species should be made In thissection, phylogenetic data between orthologues & paralogues shouldalso be provided (no high priority task)5. Bibliography : Having a reference database with access to summaryand possibly full text (through the web) with advanced querycapabilities would be a major step forward, and should probably be putamong the high priorities. This would help a lot the curation of thevarious sections, and increase their relevance for users, as discoveryand exploration tools grace to links to the literature. In thelong-term, one may expect a major part of these links to beestablished through automatic procedures.6. Forum : ATDB has already such a role, which should & will bereinforced if ATDB is expanding.Who should curate the database(s)? How should information becollected?ATDB should become a real international database, sharing curationbetween several teams around the world, as done successfully for someother major databases. Information should be collected by thedifferent teams according to their field of expertise, and be providedas much as possible by the authors themselves, and only a minimathrough literature scanning, which is a very time consuming task,requiring expertise furthermore.  Automatic (syntactic) text analysisare not ready (yet) to perform such a task with enough confidence.What should the goals be with respect to obtaining data from journalsat the time of publication? (ie., should we ask the journals toimplement a database accession requirement similar to the Genbankrequirement)This would indeed be the ideal solution...Who should "own" the Arabidopsis (or other species) databases, and howshould management and advisory committees be selected and appointed?Good question ! Why not keeping it under the auspice of theArabidopsis Steering Committee, with some additional members for theother plant genomes? Is it feasible and desirable to build onedatabase structure that will meet the needs for all plants? How caninformation on other species be most easily linked to the Arabidopsisdatabase? I think I already gave an answer to this question above.. How can the database be made financially self-supporting? (i.e., wecannot depend on continued federal support for such activities). Theonly alternative to public founding .. is private founding eg, usingcompanies either as support partners, or as clients. A shared publicfounding from (multi)national contributions (ie to allow academicaluse of the database) added to this private founds could be a workingsolution.Is it desirable to have one database or many?I see this question as a bit academic : ATDB could well be run usingdistributed databases, and be seen from outside as a coherentdatabase. What problems do you currently encounter with access to information? How could these problems be solved?Retention of information (ie: not publicly available). Bad, Unreliableor Unknown quality of information. Traceability (where does thisinformation come from?). Heterogeneous Formatting. Access (slow,sloppy..)Pierre Rouze, Laboratoire Associe de l'INRA, Flanders Institute of Biotechnology - VIB -Department of Genetics, Universiteit Gent, K.L.Ledeganckstraat 35, B-9000 GENT,Belgium------------------------------------------------------------------------Response 3With respect to the Arabidopsis database, I guess that as many others,what I envision is a data base organized by levels of organizationthat can be addressed at different levels. This database shouldcontain both structural and functional data organized at differentlevels. In this way starting for example with the keyword root one canaccess to information about root structure, root cell components, rootdevelopment, nutrients uptake, etc. and end up in the interactivepathways and proteins responsible for these processes and thecorrespondent genes. It should also be possible to address thedatabase by processes for example elongation or flowering orpollination. Of course this is likely far away from realpossibilities. Going down to the specifics, the information in thedatabase could be implemented with information on pathways andnetworks, protein interaction maps, protein structures, subcellularorganelles, cell structure, etc. This will be a way to reach to adatabase as described above.  I think that journals should beinterested in databases. As electronic editions are growing, thedatabases will provide a way to connect to the journals where theoriginal papers are published. Databases could in fact be owned by thejournals or journal consortia. They should have permanent curate stafffor the database. Agreements could be made with other editorialcompanies or publishing scientific societies to exchange information,communications, etc. Databases could be managed by subscriptions aselectronic subscriptions, with special prices or agreements to be ableto serve everybody depending on their financial possibilities. Theidea would be to somehow consider databases as reference books orencyclopedia. If there is permanent staff in the database managementthey could likely extract the information that from each paper isuseful for the database.The structure of the implemented Arabidopsis database could be usedfor other plant databases. However, in my opinion, it would be betterto have other plants in other databases. There can be other groups,scientific societies or journal publishers interested in follow theArabidopsis example with other species of their interest. For example,there are several publications concerning the potato crop that couldtake the potato initiative. Other non-excluding possibility is that inother species the information for many years will be partial butcomplementing the Arabidopsis information. Let us think for exampleabout fruit ripening, nodulation, or flower color, processes each onefor which a database can be built with information from differentspecies. The idea is that linking between databases is implemented sothat by starting from the development of the Arabidopsis silique onecan access the information on the process of tomato fruit ripening.The question of having one or many Arabidopsis databases, in myopinion is solved by having one non redundant database that is in factthe addition of several databases owned by different institutions thatare connected among them. It is required to have agreements on whatpart each database can deal with and implement them as information isgrowing. I do not think it is interesting to have redundant databasesin principle. As mentioned before, in my opinion they should beprivately owned by journal consortia.  The problems with databasesright now relate to the access, slow due to communications, theupdating that depends on variables like submission of data from theresearchers and availability of public funds. This could beimplemented by considering them as information resources managed bypublishers and scientific societies. Would it be required to fund ascientific society around Arabidopsis?Jose M. Martinez-Zapater, Biology Molecular y Virologia Vegetal,CIT-INIA, Ctra.de La Coruna km 7, 28040 Madrid (Spain)------------------------------------------------------------------------Response 4What should be in the Arabidopsis database and what is a reasonabletime frame for achieving coverage of various types of information?Access to sequence annotations, map information, mutant and transgenicdescriptions -- see #1 below.What should the goals be with respect to obtaining data from journalsat the time of publication? (ie., should we ask the journals toimplement a database accession requirement similar to the Genbankrequirement)yes -- its the only way it will work. This will require a webinterface input or separate program equivalent to NCBI's Sequin toformat input.How can the database be made financially self-supporting? (i.e., wecannot depend on continued federal support for such activities)I don't have a good idea at this point. EcoCyc is managed by Pangeanow. This suggests we may have to form a company or have companiesexist that will donate to the database out of the goodness of theirhearts. Are there natural history museums or herbariums that might seethis as a worthwhile activity (Smithsonian)? Maybe ISI (sciencecitation index people) might see this as a creative extension of theiractivities.Is it desirable to have one database or many?One database mirrored a number of places.What problems do you currently encounter with access to information?How could these problems be solved?General internet access problems, limits of one user per institute,etc.Some general thoughts:1. Sequence annotations - the biggest problem in all the sequencedatabases is fixing and updating sequence annotations, even after thegenomic sequence is finished. For sequences identified by homology, ittakes careful digging to determine if the original homologyidentification was based upon real data, or based upon yet anotherhomology.  Maybe we could borrow the model of some religious texts inwhich a central passage is ringed by successive layers of commentary,and commentary upon commentary. That is, while the original sequencesubmitter's comments would be untouched, there would be a mechanismfor later experts to add second and third layers of annotations. Thiscould be done by the Arabidopsis database irrespective of what GenBankdoes, especially if implemented as separate layers.2. Correlating phenotypes - A person sees an odd looking plant infront of them, and wishes to determine what is known about such aphenotype, or if it is unique. This is hard to do in the currentArabidopsis database. One strategy is just to improve the keywordsearches, such that everything can be searched. A second strategy isto use vary organizational schemes as entry points (phenotypicindexes, so to speak). One such index is the genetic mapposition. Knowledge of this provides an entry point to other mutantsand papers. Another possible organizing scheme could be based on theEcoCyc database format of metabolic pathways, so that biochemicalphenotypes could be correlated, or the knowledge of existing pathwayscould be queried. The user would click on a pathway and learn what wasknown about this. (this would run into part of the annotation problem,since some of the basic plant biochemical pathways may be deduced byanalogy to other systems rather than real experiment). Another way ofindexing and accessing the data for development might be to have astandardized Arabidopsis growth animation - at appropriate timesduring the growth animation, a user could click on an organ or otherfeature, and then this would lead to additional information. Clickingon a rosette leaf might lead to various types of leaf cells or indexedleaf morphologies. Someone has in front of them a transgenic plantwith altered cells in cauline leaves, and they can try to accessrelevant information by pointing an clicking on that part of the leafas it appears. Most of the introductory biology texts have beautifuldiagrams already drawn for many physiological and cellular processes.It might be possible to just get some of these from Raven or Campbell,and use them as the basis for a point and click interface. In thefuture we can look forward to their being not only EMS mutants, butsaturation transposon mutants, so having ways of describing thesephenotypes, and making them accessible, will be important.3. Active desktop -- One of the capabilities of current browsers, notused much, is to have subscriptions or to have services placeinformation on the desktop. A user of the Arabidopsis database couldsubscribe to various updates (like sequences, or mutant lists, ortransgenes, or list of knockouts), then these channels/subscriptionswould be automatically updated on the users desktop. In essence bysigning up, the user would allow the database to put update notices ontheir PC desktop.4. Cross species comparisons -- 2 years from now the human genome willbe finished, in addition to the Arabidopsis and other speciesgenomes. The stated capacity for sequencing will be on the order of100 mbp per day. We can therefore lookforward to extensive sequencingof other organisms, including plants, being rapidly sequenced. Thatmeans we need to think about building evolutionary comparisons intothe Arabidopsis database.  Suppose you want to compare some region ofan Arabidopsis chromosome with a Brassica chromosome? Although thefocus of the Arabidopsis database should be Arabidopsis, it shouldalso be possible to have some built in phylogenetic functions/handlesas well. (i.e.  I don't think we need to have an all-plantdatabase). The most likely links would be through maps and sequencehomologies.All of my ideas suffer from requiring a lot of work. Russell L. Malmberg, University of Georgia, Athens GA------------------------------------------------------------------------Response 5Regarding the Arabidopsis database, a new innovative platform needs tobe developed which is now possible in light of the recenttechnological advances in communication and the real need forapplication of such a data base. I have been involved in a megaprojectwith Charli Cantor to link all protein biochemistry data together. Whynot we consider to get a complete picture of the plant frombiochemistry to morphology to yield. Such a project is possible andcan be shared by many nations. One does not need one location or oneperson but rather coordination and structuring of such anenvironment. Today Web is the computer and database but it needs to beorganized and liked with appropriate GUI so that everyone can be atease.Prof. Desh Pal S Verma, Molecular Genetics and Biotechnology Center,The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210------------------------------------------------------------------------Response 6I think that extended information on the WEB, or any kind of siteconcerning plant genes, would be fantastic. I don't know, of course,whether this is difficult or not but it is obviously possible to do,since this type of info is possible to obtain for human genes. I thinkthe site should be curated by a group of people knowledgeable incomputer applications and in science, and I think the Journals shouldbe asked to cooperate in releasing the info as soon as a publicationis in press. It doesn't matter who owns the site, etc., as long as itis freely available to all scientists. I think it would be great totype the name of a gene or a few key words, for example, and get infoconcerning not only its sequence but also the references; and to havethe ability to link to the abstracts and, if known, the gene'sfunction, location, tissue distribution, etc. Maybe it is easiest tostart with Arabidopsis and see how things develop. Five years fromnow, I would like to access a site where one can get information aboutall plants (this is the whole idea of using Arabidopsis as a startingpoint and linking it to all others, especially agronomically importantplants!).Natasha V. Raikhel, MSU-DOE Plant Research Laboratory, Michigan StateUniversity, East Lansing MI------------------------------------------------------------------------Response 7I don't have a lot to offer in the way of advice, but I know someoneworking for this company, Proteome, and (I believe) they plan to dofor Arabidopsis what they did for Yeast. Here's the only website thatturned up in my search, but I'm guessing there are more! I don't knowtheir timetable.Here's the address: http://quest7.proteome.com/YPD_Intro.htmlThe page says: YPD is a protein database with emphasis on the physicaland functional properties of the yeast proteins. It was designed toprovide a non-redundant listing of the yeast proteins that could beused to search and select proteins by their properties. Selection byphysical, functional, and genetic categories can be carried out byusing the spreadsheet format or by using the WWW server. With thecompletion of the yeast genome sequence, YPD is the first annotateddatabase for the complete proteome of any organism.In addition to tabular data, YPD contains free-form annotations formost of the characterized yeast proteins. Key phrases describingfunctions, mutant phenotypes, and participation with other proteins incomplexes have been entered. The annotations are included in the YPDProtein Reports accessible through the WWW server.YPD is updated daily and stays current with the yeast gene sequencesavailable in GenBank. We also try to stay current with the recentliterature and to continue to add annotations from the olderliterature. We hope that the salient features for each protein areincluded and that users will supplement our efforts by sending uscorrections and additions.katie krolikowski------------------------------------------------------------------------Response 8One improvement that I think could easily be made is to integrateinformation on the map position of all new phenotypic traits at thetime of publication. As an example, I recently looked up various locithat have been identified over the past 2-3 years that influencedisease responses. Most of the genes I knew about were not on any ofthe maps that I tried linking to from the Arabidopsis web site. Ithink it is difficult for David Meinke to compile this data if peopledon't submit this information to his web site. A better way to havethe data readily available is if the journals require submission ofthe mapping data to David Meinke or some other group.Jean Greenberg, Assistant Professor, U. of Chicago