Everything you wanted to know about the University of Minnesota's analysis of
Arabidopsis ESTs but were afraid to ask

Kristi L. Swope 1,2, Elizabeth Shoop 2, Paul Bieganski 2, Ed Chi 2, Thomas
Newman 3 and Ernest F. Retzel 1

1Medical School and 2Department of Computer Science, University of Minnesota,
Minneapolis MN
3DOE Plant Research Laboratory, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI

email: comments@lenti.med.umn.edu
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents

     1.0 Overview
     2.0 Making mountains of data (or What exactly do we analyze)
          2.1 Preparation of the raw sequence
          2.2 Similarity analysis of the sequence
          2.3 Making the data easy to access, read and retrieve
     3.0 Searching through mountains of data to find your buried treasure
          3.1 Conducting a WAIS search
          3.2 Looking at the results of your WAIS search
          3.3 A word about jumping around web pages via links
     4.0 Future Directions
          4.1 Software
          4.2 Connecting the Dots (or Related projects)
     5.0 Acknowledgments
     6.0 References

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.0 Overview

At the Plant Molecular Informatics Center at the University of Minnesota,
Arabidopsis EST sequences from the Michigan State University and the French
consortium are being analyzed for quality and for similarity against public
database sequences (GenBank, GenInfo, PIR) and the resulting data is made
available on the World Wide Web (Shoop et al., 1995). In short, we supply
information pertaining to:

   * the cDNA sequence and its length after removing vector and trimming the
     sequence to improve quality;
   * the percentage of unknown bases (N) in the sequence;
   * results from running BLASTN and BLASTX against GenBank, GenInfo and PIR;
   * the presence of low composition complexity (LCC) regions in the sequence;
     and
   * results from running BLASTP on sequences with LCC regions masked out, if
     these regions exist.

In addition to processing data for Arabidopsis, we are processing sequences for
other plant genomes, including rice, maize, and loblolly pine, with Brassica
soon to come. All of the results are made available via our Web server
[http://lenti.med.umn.edu] under a queriable WAIS index.

The purpose of this electronic tutorial is to explain the work that we have
done to date and to demonstrate methods for accessing the mountains of data. In
addition, we will take you step by step through example reports, providing tips
regarding our presentation of the data.

2.0 Making mountains of data (or What exactly do we analyze)

2.1 Preparation of the raw sequence

We obtain raw sequence information directly from Michigan State University, and
the first step in processing the sequences is to filter artifacts from machine
sequencing out of the data set. Each EST is checked for quality by checking for
the ratio of unknown bases to the total number of bases in that sequence. A
sequence with less than 4 or 5% of unknown bases is considered to be of
reasonably good quality, and sequences with a higher percent of unknown bases
are trimmed from the 3' end until sequence quality is satisfactory. In
addition, 5' and 3' vector are removed from each sequence to prevent the
potential similarities to sequences of interest being overshadowed by matches
to vector sequences in the public databanks (Gish and States, 1993). While it
would be ideal to remove all vector before checking for quality, the strict
rules that are necessary for a computer to remove vector automatically
sometimes requires that the quality of the sequence be improved before vector
removal.

2.2 Similarity analysis of the sequence

The next step in the sequence processing involves conducting similarity
searches on the filtered sequences, both before and after masking out low
composition complexity (LCC) regions. The current suite of similarity
algorithms executed includes BLASTN, BLASTX, and, if LCC regions are found,
BLASTP (Altschul et al., 1990). The XNU program of Claverie and States
(Claverie and States, 1993) is employed to identify potential LCC regions and
to mask out those regions in peptide sequences translated from the ESTs. When
DNA libraries are made using directional cloning, only the positive strand is
analyzed. If the clones are not directionally cloned, as is the case for some
of our other projects, then all six frames are processed. The blasts are
performed against current versions of GenBank, PIR and GenPept databases using
a PAM score (Dayhoff et al., 1978) of 250. The high PAM score has been chosen
because it allows for similarity matches, or hits, between sequences of large
evolutionary distance, and plant DNA makes up a relatively small proportion of
the public databases. This high PAM value does not affect matches to very
similar sequences (i.e., other plants). Finally, the EST sequences are
re-blasted on a reasonably regular basis to keep up with additions to the
public databases.

2.3 Making the data easy to access, read and retrieve

The results of the automated analysis performed on a set of ESTs consists of
several files that contain information about each individual EST. Some of the
files, like the similarity search outputs, are hundreds of lines long and
contain information that is interrelated. It is difficult for anyone to peruse
each file for an EST manually and get the whole picture of the analysis for
that EST. It is equally difficult to obtain a summarized view of the results of
the similarity searches for a set of ESTs. Therefore, we package the results
from the various analyses performed and produce a single document for each EST
with hypertext links connecting related material. You can browse this single
document using a hypertext browser like Mosaic or Netscape and move through it
using the links (Section 3.3). In order to view blast results for a single
sequence at a glance, we have included in this document images from Alignment
Viewer, a visualization tool developed as part of this work (Chi et al., 1995).
The Alignment Viewer (AV) tool provides a graphical representation of all the
hits for an input EST sequence, color-coding the hits to different frames, and
organizing the hits by score and the locations of the amino acid residues where
the hit occurred along the probe sequence. The resulting display provides for
rapid interpretation of the BLASTX or BLASTP hits most likely to provide clues
about the function of the unknown sequence. Samples of these documents and
their interpretation is provided below (Section 3.2).

As another step in making data accessible, we submit all sequences that are at
least 200 base pairs in length with no more than 5% unknown bases (these
criteria were defined experimentally, Shoop, et al., 1994) to dbEST (Boguski et
al., 1993) at NCBI. The individual clones, which contain the EST sequences, are
also made available at the AIMS Stock Center at Ohio State University.

3.0 Searching through mountains of data to find your buried treasure

3.1 Conducting a WAIS search

You can pull up a form for conducting a search on this data by linking to our
server [http://lenti.med.umn.edu] and clicking first on the link "Go to the
Arabidopsis Project", and next on the "WAIS index search" link. One way to
think of WAIS searching is to liken it to conducting a literature search,
except instead of searching through many journals for articles of interest, you
are searching through quality and blast reports for sequences of interest. The
form used is shown in Figure 1. You need to make a choice as to which groups of
sequences you wish to search. Any combination of one or all of the groups is
acceptable. The yellow boxes indicate that the group of sequences will be
included in the search. Next, type in the key word or words into the query
search string box. There are two important points to keep in mind when choosing
your key word. First, WAIS does not treat a phrase as a phrase per se, but as
individual words. For example, if you get a hit on the query "early light
inducible" it could be because the phrase "early light inducible" was found in
the document, or it could be because the word "early" was found in the
document, but not "light" or "inducible". The second key to remember is that,
while in most literature searches you can restrict hits to the title or the
abstract or look for hits anywhere in the report, in WAIS searches, you do not
have a choice of restricting searches to particular fields. You can find more
tips on conducting a WAIS search under the "tips and pitfalls" link which is
just above the form shown in Figure 1. Our server also points to a very
detailed explanation on how to conduct searches
[http://ls6-www.informatik.uni-dortmund.de/freeWAIS-sf/fwsf_5.html#SEC45].
After typing in your query, choose the number of hits you want returned, and
then click the start search button.

After searching, the server will provide you with a list of documents appearing
as links (Figure 2). Each of these documents contain all the information
described above (Section 2.0) for a single cDNA, and only the documents
containing the key word(s) for which you searched are listed. If any the fields
that you selected have no hits, this is reported at the top of this list. For
example, when searching the MSU Arabidopsis sequences and the USDA loblolly
pine sequences for "catalase", we find that there are no hits for the pine
sequences; therefore, the hits listed are all from the Arabidopsis sequences
(Figure 2). The default value for the number of documents returned is 200. If
you get 200, it is probably because there are a lot more than 200 documents
that contain your search words. This list of documents is ordered based on the
score that the freeWAIS program, which is used to make the WAIS index, assigns
to each document. This score is based on the number of occurrences of the
search words in a document, the location of the words in a document, the
frequency of those words within the collection, and the size of the document.
It is important to keep this in mind as you survey your results, because, for
example, a high score may point to a document that contains very few or no
data.

3.2 Looking at the results of your WAIS search

After the WAIS search comes back with the list described above (Section 3.1),
you may click on one of the links to open up one of the documents containing
the sequence, quality information and several forms of blast data. For example,
by clicking on the link
http://lenti.med.umn.edu/r2.MSU_Ath/950315b/154N18T7-JCAG500.seq.html, that is
seen in Figure 2, the file containing the sequence analysis information for
clone 154N18T7 is opened (Figure 3). This document can be very large, and it is
generally advantageous to review its contents by scrolling through various
parts of the document and clicking on links to hop quickly to other parts. By
using the scroll bar on the right side of the file, we move directly to
information about the EST studied in this file (Figure 4). The DNA sequence is
presented at the top of this file so that you may copy it for your own records.

Following the background sequence information, a visualization of BLASTX
similarity results is presented with an image from the Alignment Viewer tool
(Figure 5), followed by a visualization of BLASTP hits. In these images, all
the alignments to the sequence in question are plotted according to score on
the y axis and according to the location and length of the alignment on the x
axis. Alignments with scores of 150 or greater are considered strong hits, and
a putative function can be assigned ESTs which have hits with this high a score
(Shoop et al., 1994). Alignments with scores of less than 80 should be viewed
critically, as such a low score suggests that the alignment was largely due to
chance. Also, short regions of high similarity may have an artificially high
score.

Sometimes the BLASTP image appears empty (Figure 6), and this can occur for
various reasons. For instance, if there are no LCC regions found in the
sequence, the BLASTP program is not run. As another example, there may be LCC
regions found in frame 1, but alignments only in frame 3. In this case, a
BLASTP was run on frame 1, but since there are no hits to frame 1, there are no
data to graph. If there are LCC regions found in a frame that shows sequence
similarity to a public sequence, the location of the regions is presented, as
shown in Figure 7.

Underneath the description of LCC regions, a link allows you to go directly to
a summary list of protein alignments that were obtained with BLASTP (Figure 8).
This summary enables you to determine at a glance what frame the alignments
occurred in, whether or not there was a frame shift, and a brief description of
the sequence to which the alignment occurred. Additionally, the higher scores
and lower p-values indicate which hits are the strongest. By clicking on the
"goto" link, you can see the actual alignment between the protein sequences, as
well as a longer description of the sequence from the databank (Figure 9). You
can also get to these alignments by continuing to scroll down the document from
the summary list. Note that the top sequence is the test sequence that blast
was run against and the bottom sequence is the similar sequence from the public
databank. If you are interested in researching the latter sequence, there are
links, which connect directly to the databank, in both the summary report and
the individual alignment reports.

If instead of using the link to go to the BLASTP data, you continue to scroll
down the report, there is a summary list of protein alignments that were
obtained with BLASTX. These data are collected without masking out any low
complexity regions, but the presentation of the data is identical to the BLASTP
data. In cases where LCC regions are found it is important to compare the
BLASTX and BLASTP results to determine which data are appropriate for your
research purposes.

The summary list of BLASTX alignments is followed by the summary list of BLASTN
alignments, which provides similar information on the DNA alignments obtained
with BLASTN. After the summary lists are the detailed lists of BLASTX, BLASTN,
and BLASTP hits (Figure 9), respectively. These lists are ordered according to
increasing p-value, and hits with p-values greater than 0.1 are omitted from
the list. For some ESTs, when you look for the BLASTP hits, you may find the
heading of this section, but no entries (Figure 10). This may seem puzzling at
first. However, if there are no low complexity regions, or hits occurred with a
p-value greater than 0.1, there are no reportable BLASTP results, and hence,
this section should be empty. If you go back to the table of contents at the
top of the document, and click on the "Low Complexity Regions" title, you can
double check whether or not LCC regions were found.

3.3 A word about jumping around web pages via links

As you explore these web pages and others, it is useful to keep in mind a few
features about links. First, sometimes when you click on a link, you may get a
response indicating that a server is not available. This occurs when the local
machines that store the information you are requesting is busy or the network
itself is busy, in which case the query times out before the server responds.
In these cases, it is best to try the link at another time, and you are more
likely to get through. Second, one of the attractive features about links, is
that server A can point to the information in server B without needing to worry
about keeping the information up to date. Server B controls this information
and is responsible for updates. However, server B controls the link name as
well. If server B has a need to change the name of the link, it is not a
trivial task to inform server A of this change. Therefore, the link to server B
may be outdated without server A being aware that a change has taken place.
Webmasters, or the people who make the web pages available, do a great job in
keeping these links current, but occasionally, you may find an outdated link
before they do. In these cases, a brief email sent to a contact provided on the
web pages, describing the link and the problem, would be greatly appreciated.

4.0 Future directions

We are generally quite proud of the server as it is, with nearly 30,000
sequences and their analyses across the species. However, we are far from done
with it! There are many things in queue and planned that you should be aware
of, if for no other reason than to encourage you to register with the User
Group on the system so you will be notified of new developments and additions.

4.1 Software

There are several pieces of attached (within the server) and associated
(clients of the server) software coming on-line soon. By "soon," we mean they
already exist, and are either in the final stages of testing and documentation,
or are getting their respective databases updated.

First, we have a local BLASTN search tool ready, and it will likely be on our
server before you read this paper. This will allow you to search our data sets
with your DNA sequence(s). It is interactive, and web-based, and all you need
do is select the target genomes you are interested in, paste your sequence into
the window, and click on the "submit your query" button. An obvious follow-up
for this program is a version for BLASTX to run your data against the
translations of coding sequences in our data. All we are waiting for to bring
this up is the new version of Xgrail (Xgrail 1.3; unfortunately, the current
version isn't suitable for our needs) from Oak Ridge National Labs so we can
have a smarter version of the translations of the sequences.

Second, Alignment Viewer (AV) (Chi et al., 1995) is the tool we use to produce
the static images in the EST analysis reports. In its "real" incarnation, the
program is 3-dimensional and interactive, and additional information is
calculated and displayed "on the fly" (specifically, it shows you a curve of
what the substitution matrices will do if you were to run them all; both PAM
(Dayhoff et al., 1978) and BLOSUM (Henikoff and Henikoff, 1993) matrices are
included. If you have a Sun (SunOS 4.1.3, Solaris 2.4), SGI or Linux computer
running "motif" window system, you will be able to run this client. It
functions much like other external viewers for the Web (xv being one of them
for Unix-based machines), in that it resides on your machine, but reads data
from ours.

Third, the MotifExplorer (Bieganski, et al., 1996) is based on a something
called a "suffix tree" (Bieganski, et al., 1994; Bieganski, 1995). The
underlying algorithm and data structure is described in the papers above; what
it *is*, however, is a very fast pattern matching tool. The is the only large
scale implemetation that we know of, and presently allows you to explore PIR
using a variety of patterns, including ProSite patterns or those of your own
design. Our own data will be available under this tool, shortly after we get
Xgrail 1.3 (see note above).

One of our longest term and most complex projects has been the development of a
relational database management system (DBMS) for sequences, lab, analytical and
derived information. This system will allow for very complex searches, or
queries, against the entire data set. The data structure has been defined, and,
indeed, data has been loaded into the database. It is still very much under
development, and is queriable only by Structured Query Language (SQL) at the
moment; however, we are designing web-based "query-building" screens so that
one will not have to understand SQL (or even know that it exists) to use the
DBMS. One of the unique additions to this system has been the development of
database operators (termed "datablades") for the DBMS that understands protein
motifs. This allows the searching of sequences in the database with any pattern
and particularly the ProSite patterns.

4.2 Connecting the Dots (or Related projects)

We have several projects which are primarily collaborative in nature. Among
these is the addition of mapping information when ESTs have been intentionally
or accidentally mapped onto YACs, BACs or cosmids (###). We are also adding
information supplied by other groups, when families of proteins have been
identified with ESTs and other, sometimes characterized clones are available
(###Estelle Hrabak, at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, has identified
ESTs that are isoforms of CDPK). Finally, we are trying to figure out a means
to include identified phenotypic mutants from laboratory experiments,
particularly when that information maps onto our EST data. Write to us at
comments@lenti.med.umn.edu if you have similar information you would like us to
make available to the community. You will be the key contact regarding any
information you provide.

As happy as we are with the directions we have taken for this project, EST
data, even extended by a variety of analyses, needs a context to exist in. To
that end, we have been volunteering our time to work on other genomes, feeling
that some of the real treasures may be in the *comparative* genome analysis.
While this part of the project is presently unfunded, we are gathering ESTs
from rice, maize and loblolly pine presently, and we will shortly add some of
the Brassica sequences. In addition, some preliminary discussions are in
progress with other projects. We feel very strongly that this database of
multi-genus plant ESTs has the ability to begin to provide direction both for
molecular and for biological experimentation.

5.0 Acknowledgments

The University of Minnesota Plant Data Acquisition, Analysis and Distribution
Project is funded under NSF Grant BIR 940-2380, and the Michigan State
University DOE Plant Research Laboratory Arabidopsis cDNA Sequencing Project is
funded under NSF Grant BIR 931-3751. In addition, we are supported by major
resources from the following: The University of Minnesota Medical School, with
special thanks to Dean Frank Cerra; Computing and Informations Services, with
special thanks to Professor and Vice President Don Riley; University Networking
Services, with special thanks to Director Larry Dunn; Sun Microsystems, with
special thanks to Sandra Swenson; IBM with special thanks to Norm Troullie and
Pat Carey; and Cray Research, Inc., with special thanks to John Carpenter and
Bill King.

6.0 References

S.F. Altschul, W. Gish, W. Miller, E.W. Myers, and D. J. Lipman. 1990. "Basic
Alignment Search Tool." Journal of Molecular Biology, 215:403-410.

P. Bieganski. 1995. "Genetic Sequence Data Retrieval and Manipulation based on
Generalized Suffix Trees." Ph.D. Thesis, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
MN.

P. Bieganski, J. Riedl, J.V. Carlis and E.F. Retzel. 1994. "Generalized Suffix
Trees for Biological Sequence Data: Applications and Implementation." In:
Proceedings of the IEEE 27th Hawaii International Conference on System
Sciences. Oahu, Hawaii. L. Shriver and L. Hunter, (Eds.). IEEE Computer Society
Press. V:35-44.

P. Bieganski, J. Riedl, J.V. Carlis and E.F. Retzel. 1996. "Motif Explorer--A
Tool for Interactive Exploration of Amino Acid Sequence Motifs." Pacific
Symposium on Biocomputing, Hawaii. Submitted.

M.S. Boguski, T.M.J. Lowe, and C.M. Tolstoshev. 1993. "dbest - database for
expressed sequence tags." Nature Genetics, 4:332-333.

Ed Huai-hsin Chi, Phillip Barry, Elizabeth Shoop, John V. Carlis, Ernest
Retzel, John Riedl. 1995. "Visualization of Biological Sequence Similarity
Search Results" Accepted for "IEEE Visualization '95" October Conference.
Atlanta.

Jean-Michel Claverie and David States. 1993. "Information enhancement methods
for large scale sequence analysis." Computers and Chemistry, 17(2):191-201.

M. O. Dayhoff, R. M. Schwartz, and B. C. Orcutt. 1978. "A model of evolutionary
change in proteins." In: Atlas of Protein Sequence and Structure, M. O.
Dayhoff, (Ed.). National Biomedical Research Foundation, Vol. 5, Suppl. 3,
chapter 22, 345-352.

Warren Gish and David States. 1993. "Identification of protein coding regions
by database similarity search." Nature Genetics, 3:266-272.

Steven Henikoff and Jorga Henikoff. 1993. "Performance evaluation of amino acid
substitution matrices." Proteins: Structure, Function, and Genetics, 17:49-61.

E. Shoop, E. Chi, J.V. Carlis, P. Bieganski, J. Riedl, N. Dalton, T. Newman and
E.F. Retzel. 1995. "Implementation and Testing of an Automated EST Processing
and Similarity Ana lysis System." In: Proceedings of the IEEE 28th Annual
International Conference on System Sciences. Maui, Hawaii. L. Shriver and L.
Hunter, (Eds.). IEEE Computer Society Press. 5:52-61.

E. Shoop, J.V. Carlis and E.F. Retzel. 1994. "Automating and Streamlining
Inference of Function of ESTs within a Data Analysis System" In: Proceedings of
the IEEE 27th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences. Oahu, Hawaii.
L. Shriver and L. Hunter, (Eds.). IEEE Computer Society Press. V: 45-46.


