PLEASE READ THIS BIT FIRST.  Given below is the original readme that
accompanied the first electronic release of "Arabidopsis: The Compleat
Guide," which was in the late summer of 1993.  More recent comments
have been added in brackets [].

README.TXT
26 July '93

These are the instructions for the WriteNow 3.0 (for Macintosh)
version of "Arabidopsis: The Compleat Guide" (version 1.4).  The
original, limited-edition, hard-copy manual was compiled by David
Flanders and Caroline Dean as part of the co-ordination of the UK
Agricultural and Food Research Council's Plant Molecular Biology
Arabidopsis Programme.  [The AFRC has been superseded by the BBSRC.]

This electronically-retrievable Macintosh version has been prepared
with the kind help of Sam Cartinhour and Mike Cherry.  They also
helped prepare a text-only and WAIS search version (i.e., readable on
virtually all computers via Gopher), which are also available from the
AAtDB Research Companion at Massachusetts General Hospital. [Now at
the Stanford web-site.]

To get the WriteNow version, simply pull across the file
COMPLEAT_GUIDE_WN3.SEA to your Mac [by clicking on the link
"Download...". Once on your Mac,] double-clicking on this will give
you a folder (COMPLEAT GUIDE WN3).  Within this, there are seven
folders: six chapters (e.g., CHAP 1. PLANTS) and a table of contents.
Within each chapter, each protocol is included in numerical order
(e.g., 4. Arab Seed Harvester).  Some of the protocols have diagrams
associated with them and these are included as .PICT files (e.g.,
4im. Seed Harvester Image) and can be opened by virtually all Mac
drawing programs.  So you should be able to print out the whole thing
(there's even an optional cover picture).  North American users,
please note, however, that the rest of the known world uses A4 paper
(slightly narrower and longer than US letter) and so you may have to
play around a little with the pagebreaks if you want a perfectly
formatted copy.

We realise that not everyone has WriteNow 3.0, but this was the
wordprocessor used to produce the manual and some other applications,
e.g., WordPerfect and MacWrite II, can open WriteNow documents.
Formatting changes may occur when using a different word-processor,
but these should be cosmetic only and the important factors, such as
mu's, super- and sub- script, etc., should be unaltered.

Don't believe everything you read and "Arabidopsis: The Compleat
Guide" is NOT a comprehensive guide to how to work with Arabidopsis.
Nevertheless, it's 50-odd protocols should get you on your way.  Some
of the protocols were lifted from postings on the BIOSCI Arabidopsis
electronic bulletin board (ARAB-GEN).  Many other bulletin-board
protocols were not lifted, however, and so it may well be worth your
while doing a WAIS search of the BIOSCI ARAB-GEN archive [Now
available on the Stanford web-site]).  A word of caution though:
protocols on ARAB-GEN rarely seem to appear in one posting (witness
the recent RNA farrago) and so check careful through the archive
before starting experiments.


David Flanders [Now at Stanford] and Caroline Dean [still there, and thriving]
Dept. Molecular Genetics
The John Innes Centre
Colney
Norwich
NR4 7UJ
England

e-mail:  ARABIDOPSIS@JII.AFRC.AC.UK
Tel:   +44-1603-452571
FAX:  +44-1603-505725
[Note new 'phone numbers.]
