Genome Annotation Curator, Biological Research Database, Carnegie Institution, 
Stanford, CA

TAIR, The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://arabidopsis.org) is a 
National Science Foundation-funded web resource for thousands of plant biology 
researchers worldwide, providing free access to a wide array of biological data 
and tools for the model plant Arabidopsis.  The Carnegie Institution Department 
of Plant Biology is co-located with the Department of Global Ecology on a seven-
acre site on the campus of Stanford University.

We are currently seeking applicants for the position of genome annotation 
curator. The successful candidate will work with a team of curators, software 
engineers, and database developers to provide data to over 13,000 users of the 
TAIR website and database.  The ideal candidate is a plant biologist with 
extensive lab research experience, a good publication record, excellent 
communication and critical thinking skills and a desire to facilitate plant 
research while remaining on the cutting edge of plant biology and genomics.  We 
will train the successful candidate in any needed computer skills.

Main Responsibilities:

*	Carry out manual and computational reannotation of gene structure and 
	function for TAIR genome releases as a member of our genome annotation 
	team 
*	Read current research articles and extract gene function data for loading 
	into TAIR
*	Contribute to the development of standard curation procedures 
*	Provide support to the research community including answering questions 
	and providing training on how to use the database and related tools
*	Assist scientists with large data submissions 
*	Assist with design of new or improved web interfaces and tools

Requirements: 

*	A Ph.D in Biology or related discipline with research experience in plant 
	biology
*	Demonstrated ability for independent, critical thinking
*	Excellent written and verbal communication skills
*	Ability to work well as part of a team 
*	Good basic computer skills (word processing, spreadsheets, web browsers)

Recommended: 

*	Experience with Internet-based literature searching, Unix, HTML, Perl and 
	mySQL would be useful but is not required.

This is an on-site position, telecommuters will not be considered.  Qualified 
candidates should email a cover letter, CV and names of 3 references to Dr. Eva 
Huala at huala@acoma.stanford.edu.

The Carnegie Institution of Washington is an equal opportunity employer.
