A bioinformatics postdoctoral research position available to generate 
metabolic networks in plants

A bioinformatics postdoctoral position is available immediately in the laboratory of 
Dr. Sue Rhee at the Carnegie Institution, Department of Plant Biology (Stanford, 
CA), to create and analyze metabolic networks of plants. This project aims to use 
existing bioinformatic tools and data to predict the metabolic network context for 
plants with substantial sequence information such as poplar, maize, wheat, 
soybean and sugarcane, among others. This project is an important component 
of a larger project called the Plant Metabolic Network (PMN) whose goal is to 
create a gold-standard and comprehensive reference database of plant 
metabolic pathways (called PlantCyc) and a collection of species-specific 
metabolic pathway databases. The collection of databases will have a number of 
applications including metabolic engineering and comparative genomics. The 
successful candidate will work closely with database curators and programmers 
at Carnegie.

Qualified candidates must have a Ph.D. or equivalent in Biology, Mathematics, 
Computer Science, Engineering or related field, and a strong background in 
using statistics and bioinformatics. Proficiency in Perl programming, Unix, and 
common bioinformatics tools for large-scale sequence analysis are required. The 
successful candidate should also have a demonstrated ability for independent 
and critical thinking, excellent communication and teamwork skills.

The Carnegie Institution, a private, nonprofit organization engaged in basic 
research and advanced education in biology, astronomy, and the earth sciences, 
was founded and endowed by Andrew Carnegie in 1902 and incorporated by an 
act of Congress in 1904. Andrew Carnegie conceived the Institution's purpose "to 
encourage, in the broadest and most liberal manner, investigation, research, and 
discovery, and the application of knowledge to the improvement of mankind." The 
Department of Plant Biology engages in basic research on the mechanisms 
involved in the growth and development of plants and algae. The Department of 
Plant Biology is co-located with the Carnegie Department of Global Ecology on a 
seven-acre site on the campus of Stanford University.

Please email a brief letter describing your research experience, plus your CV and 
contact information for 3 references to Sue Rhee (rhee@acoma.stanford.edu).

