Questions for AtDB course in Uppsala.

When searching the Genbank database a number of different problems may
arise.

1.  Redundant gene names.  The search term you use may refer to a
number of genes.  Occasionally the same gene name may have been used
for two different proteins.

An example of this is the gene name AAT1 which has been used for an
aspartate aminotransferase (ATAAT1) and a cationic amino acid
transporter (ATAAT1G).  If you retrieve both of the Genbank records
via Entrez at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Entrez/nucleotide.html You
can see that both refer to the gene AAT1 but that the amino acid
sequence is distinct.  The easiest way to confirm that genes of an
identical name are in fact different is to look at the amino acid
sequence.

2.  A similar situation appears to have arisen with the records for
the gene GLP3 (germin-like protein).  There are nine seperate GenBank
entries for this gene, which may represent members of a gene family.
The Locus identifiers are ATU75189, ATU75190, ATU75196, ATU75197,
ATU75201, ATU75206, ATU95034, ATU95035, ATGLP3.  Using FASTA searches
see if you can distinguish the members of this "family".

Hint David, these are mostly the same thing actually ATGLP-3 is
different from the other six entries that are also supposed to be
GLP-3.

3.  Occasionally members of closely related gene families will have
very similar sequences.  An example of this is the vacuolar H+-pumping
ATPase family referred to as; ava-p(ATHAVAPB), ava-p1 (ATHAVAP),
ava-p2 (ATHAVAPA), ava-p2e (ATHAVAPD) and AVP-3 (ATHAVP3).  In this
case the amino acid sequences of the genes ava-p and ava-p1 appear to
be identical and both of these are in turn very similar to avap2e.
Thus the amino acid sequence does not provide enough detail to reveal
the differences between these genes.  However, a nucleotide based,
BLAST search reveals that there are a number of differences between
these loci.  Suggesting that, unlike the entries in the previous
question, these do represent individual loci.

4.  Gene families and clustal arrangements.  It is increasingly likely
that a gene under investigation may be a member of a previously
defined gene family.  This will become obvious through BLAST
searching, but a more detailed way to examine the level and extent of
homology is to arrange members of a family alongside one another.
Four such genes can be used to illustrate this agamous (ATAGAMSG)
agamous like gene 5 (ATHAGL5A) a MADS like gene from pine trees
(PRU42400) and an outlying member of this family, the yeast gene MCM1
(SCMCM1).  Use these locus identifiers to retrieve the FASTA format,
protein record which may then be pasted into the CLUSTALW form
available from Larry Parnell's home page (which is found on the course
home page).  See if you can identify the MADS box, Dave this name
comes from MCM1, agamous, deficiens, and SRF1, the MADS box should be
around the 5' end and be highly conserved.
