Job Announcement: Postdoctoral Research Associate

WORKING JOB TITLE: 
Postdoctoral Research Associate
 
POSITION: 
Postodoctoral Research Associate
 
POSITION LOCATION:  
2350 Partners II, 840 Main Campus Drive, Centennial Campus, North Carolina State University. 
Raleigh, NC 27695-7550

SALARY: 
Commensurate with training and experience with full benefits, including health insurance.

JOB OPEN DATE: 
October 1, 2010
 
DEADLINE FOR RECEIVING APPLICATIONS: 
November 30, 2010 or until a suitable candidate is identified.
 
PROPOSED HIRE DATE: 
Position available immediately; actual start date subject to negotiation
 
POSITION DESCRIPTION/RESPONSIBILITIES: 
We seek highly qualified applicants to join a small team of researchers seeking to understand how 
Matrix Attachment Regions (MARs) function and influence gene expression following integration into 
the Arabidopsis genome. The successful applicant will conduct research that includes the use of 
site-specific recombination (SSR) to produce isogenic lines containing a transgene with and without 
MARs.  Isogenic plant lines with mapped insertions will be then used to explore the molecular basis 
of MAR activity at defined genomic loci in both wild-type and mutant backgrounds using molecular and 
biochemical techniques. 

Candidates with molecular genetics, genomics, and basic bioinformatics skills, plus a demonstrated 
ability to perform independent research will be preferred.  The candidate will be expected to 
collaborate with existing team members, contribute intellectually to the group, prepare publications, 
and participate in our outreach program and workshops. There will also be an opportunity for 
synergistic interactions with a larger collaborative research team of scientists from North Carolina 
State, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories, and the University of Texas who are studying epigenome 
dynamics during DNA replication. 

This is an NSF funded position that is annually renewable for up to three years depending upon 
satisfactory performance and continuation of funding.  

QUALIFICATIONS: 
A PhD is required in a relevant biological discipline. The successful applicant will have a track 
record of peer-reviewed published (or publishable) research in gene cloning, chromatin structure, 
gene expression, cell biology, or a relevant aspect of plant developmental biology.  Experience with 
plant systems is desirable but not essential.  Strong interpersonal skills plus a willingness to 
learn and apply new techniques is important, as is the ability to work independently while 
functioning as part of a team.  
 
APPLICATIONS: Applicants must apply through the NC State University Jobs site (below) and follow the 
instructions.   

jobs.ncsu.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=88522

Refer to Position#: 100303

The application must include a cover letter that details one's interest, experience, and 
qualifications relating to this position; a curriculum vita; and names and contact information for 
three references.  Once the on-line application is complete, send an email to george_allen@ncsu.edu 
indicating that the application has been submitted.  

NC State University is an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Employer. NC State welcomes all 
persons without regard to sexual orientation. Individuals with disabilities desiring accommodations 
in the application process should contact the above listed individual.

