Faculty Position in Genetics 
Department of Genetics 
North Carolina State University 

The Department of Genetics at North Carolina State University invites applications for a 
tenure-track faculty position in genetics. A successful candidate will establish a research 
program that complements existing departmental research strengths in quantitative, 
evolutionary and developmental genetics. Preference will be given to applicants with 
research expertise in plant or vertebrate population genetics, systems genetics or 
epigenetics. At this time, we do not encourage applicants who use Drosophila as their 
primary model organism. Applicants should have a PhD or equivalent, be broadly 
trained with at least two years of productive post-doctoral research experience, 
embrace interdisciplinary research and have a commitment to student training. A new 
faculty member is expected to develop and maintain vibrant, extramurally-supported 
research programs and contribute to departmental teaching. A competitive salary and 
startup package will be provided to ensure a successful research program. 

Faculty in the Department of Genetics (http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/genetics/) are engaged 
in basic genetic research using model organisms. The department has strong graduate 
and post-doctoral programs, and offers a new undergraduate major in genetics. NCSU 
has outstanding facilities and programs for plant ( http://www.ncsu.edu/phytotron/) and 
animal (http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/brf/) research, genomics ( http://genomics.ncsu.edu/) 
and bioinformatics (http://bioinformatics.ncsu.edu/). 

To apply, go to jobs.ncsu.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=88258, and provide a 
cover letter, curriculum vitae, statements of research and teaching interests, and 
arrange to have at least three letters of recommendation sent to Faculty Search Chair, 
Department of Genetics, Box 7614, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC 27695- 
7614 (genetics@ncsu.edu). Candidates should attach representative preprints or 
reprints to the application. Review of applications will begin November 1st, 2010 and 
continue until the position is filled. We welcome the opportunity to work with candidates 
to identify suitable employment opportunities for spouses or partners. 

NCSU is an AA/EO employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for 
employment without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, veteran 
status or disability. In its commitment to diversity and equity, NC State University seeks 
applications from women, minorities, and persons with disabilities. NC State welcomes 
all persons without regard to sexual orientation. ADA Accommodations: please call 
919-515-5727. 
