Faculty Positions in Genetics 
Department of Genetics 
North Carolina State University 
 
The Department of Genetics at North Carolina State University invites applications at the 
assistant professor level for two tenure-track faculty positions in genetics. Successful 
candidates will establish research programs that complement existing departmental 
research strengths in quantitative, evolutionary and developmental genetics. Preference 
will be given to applicants with research expertise in population genetics, systems 
genetics or epigenetics. Applicants should have a PhD or equivalent, be broadly trained 
with at least two years of productive post-doctoral research experience, embrace 
interdisciplinary research and have a commitment to student training. New faculty 
members are expected to develop and maintain vibrant, extramurally-supported research 
programs and contribute to departmental teaching. A competitive salary and startup 
package will be provided to ensure a successful research program. 
 
Faculty in the Department of Genetics (http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/genetics/) are engaged 
in basic genetic research using model organisms. The department has strong graduate and 
post-doc programs and will be home to a new undergraduate major in genetics starting in 
2009. NCSU has outstanding facilities and programs for plant 
(http://www.ncsu.edu/phytotron/) and animal (http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/brf/) research, 
genomics (http://gsl.cals.ncsu.edu/) and bioinformatics (http://bioinformatics.ncsu.edu/). 
 
To apply go to jobs.ncsu.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=82501, and provide a cover 
letter, curriculum vitae, statements of research and teaching interests, and arrange to have 
at least three letters of recommendation sent to Faculty Search Chair, Department of 
Genetics, Box 7614, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC 27695-7614 
(genetics@ncsu.edu). Candidates should attach representative preprints or reprints to the 
application. Review of applications will begin January 6, 2009 and continue until the 
positions are filled. We welcome the opportunity to work with candidates to identify 
suitable employment opportunities for spouses or partners. 
 
NCSU is an AA/EO employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for 
employment without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, veteran 
status or disability. In its commitment to diversity and equity, NC State University seeks 
applications from women, minorities, and persons with disabilities. NC State welcomes 
all persons without regard to sexual orientation. ADA Accommodations: please call 919-
515-5727. 
 
Jose Alonso 
Phone: (919)515 5729 
Fax: (919) 515 3355 
Email: jmalonso@unity.ncsu.edu 
Web: http://www4.ncsu.edu/~jmalonso
