DOE/USDA funded Postdoctoral Research Associate Position, Ph.D and MS 
Assistantships and Internships in Bioenergy-Biotechnology of Sugarcane 
 
DOE-USDA funded (http://www.energy.gov/6035.htm) positions are available for 
postdoctoral research associate, Ph.D. and MS graduate students and interns. 
Assistantships are available for highly motivated and qualified students in the Laboratory 
of Plant Molecular Physiology, Agronomy Department, IFAS, University of Florida. 
Research can begin immediately and coursework can start in the fall of 2008 or spring of 
2009. 
 
Lignocellulosic materials produced by biomass grasses are a promising feedstock to 
produce low-cost ethanol. Our research program integrates advanced genetic 
transformation technology and functional genomics to identify, isolate and engineer 
limiting factors for molecular improvement of grasses 
http://agronomy.ifas.ufl.edu/pdfs/Genes.pdf. 
 
Funded research currently focuses on three objectives to develop genetically enhanced 
sugarcane for bioenergy production (http://agnetonline.com/2008/03/24/uf-receives-1m-
to-unlock-energy-from-sugarcane-residues/) 
Postdoc and thesis research will focus on the genetic improvement of biomass quantity 
and quality in sugarcane for production of biofuel. This involves gene expression 
profiling, gene isolation, construction of plant expression vectors, stable genetic 
transformation of sugarcane (using well established transformation protocols and 
developing advanced technology) with candidate genes, molecular, physiological and 
biochemical characterization of transgenic sugarcane, evaluation of biomass conversion 
to bioethanol. This is an ideal opportunity for meaningful publications and future 
professional development in either academia or industry. 
 
Excellent communication skills and a strong publication record demonstrating expertise 
in a range of molecular techniques are required for the postdoctoral position to support 
grant proposal development and lead a team of students. An earned M.S. degree in 
agronomy, plant breeding, or a related field is required for PhD assistantships. Previous 
experience with molecular techniques and tissue culture are desirable. A plant science or 
biotechnology background is necessary for the MS assistantships. Internships are 
available for junior and senior students in plant or biological sciences. 
 
Interested applicants should send: 
1) Current resume including names, addresses, and telephone numbers of three references 
2) GRE scores and 
3) a letter of application including statement of purpose and qualifications. 
In addition, international students must include a copy of their TOEFL scores. 
Applications and questions related to the application process should preferably be send 
by e-mail to faltpeter@ifas.ufl.edu<mailto:faltpeter@mail.ifas.ufl.edu> or addressed to: 
Dr. Fredy Altpeter 
Agronomy Department 
University of Florida, IFAS 
PO Box 11O300 
Gainesville, FL 32611-300 
 
Review of applications will start immediately and continue until a suitable candidate is 
identified. 
Gainesville, the home town of the University of Florida, is located half way between the 
Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico with a population of 140 000 (46 000 students) 
and has frequently achieved top ratings in quality of life and affordability 
http://gainesville.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20070506/SUNFRONT/705060331&S
earchID=73280328541268. More information on the University of Florida is available at 
http://www.ufl.edu<http://www.ufl.edu/> University of Florida is an Affirmative 
Action/Equal Opportunity Employer (male/female) and does not discriminate on the basis 
of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, ancestry, citizenship, age, gender, sexual 
orientation, disability, or Vietnam Era Veteran status in the offering of all benefits, 
services, and educational and employment opportunities. Women and minorities are 
encouraged to apply.
