Three Graduate Research Assistantships (2 Ph.D, 1 MS) in Genetic Improvement of 
BIOENERGY Grasses are  available in the Laboratory of Plant Molecular Physiology, 
Agronomy Department, IFAS, Univ. of Florida 
http://agronomy.ifas.ufl.edu/Altpeter.HTML.
 
Lignocellulosic materials produced by biomass grasses are a promising feedstock to 
produce low-cost ethanol. Genetic improvement of grasses through genetic engineering 
or targeted mutagenesis will enhance their quality and reduce costs associated with 
biomass conversion to fuel. A description of our research objectives to develop 
genetically enhanced grasses can be found at: 
http://www.mae.ufl.edu/Energy/index.php?src=faculty&ID=79. Efficient nuclear grass 
transformation or mutagenesis protocols are established in our laboratory.
 
Job Description: Selected candidates will focus on RNAi suppression of rate limiting 
genes in the lignin biosynthetic pathway, high level expression of cell wall degrading 
enzymes or alteration of flowering time to enhance biomass quality and quantity. This 
will include gene cloning, tissue culture, gene transfer, molecular and biochemical 
characterization of improved grasses.
 
Qualifications: The successful applicants must have a first-class Master’s or BS degree 
in Molecular Biology, Biotechnology, Biochemistry, Plant Science or Microbiology. The 
successful Ph.D candidates will have demonstrated experience in standard molecular 
biology techniques and plant transformation and a demonstrated ability to perform 
research at an advanced level. Superior communication skills and the ability to work both 
independently and in a team are essential. 
 
Stipend: Stipend is commensurate with training and experience and will include tuition 
and a contribution to health insurance. 
 
To Apply: You will find information on how to apply 
at http://agronomy.ifas.ufl.edu/gradadmission.html. Send also a cover letter describing 
your research interests and career goals, CV, transcripts, and the contact information for 
three references preferably by e-mail to faltpeter@ifas.ufl.edu or addressed to: Dr. Fredy 
Altpeter, Agronomy Department, University of Florida, IFAS, PO Box 11O300, 
Gainesville, FL 32611-300. Review of applications will start immediately and continue 
until suitable candidates are identified. Research may potentially start as early as January 
2008 but applicants must apply for an August 2008 start date in the Ph.D. or Masters 
program.
 
Gainesville, the home town of the University of Florida and the Florida Gators, is located 
half way between the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico with a population of 160 
000 (49 000 students) and has frequently achieved top ratings in quality of life and 
affordability. The University of Florida is the state’s Land Grant and Sea Grant institution 
and a member of the prestigious American Association of Universities. UF conducts 
research, instruction, and extension outreach programs on the campus and throughout the 
state. UF/IFAS is a federal, state, and local government partnership dedicated to develop 
knowledge in agriculture, human and natural resources, and the life sciences and to make 
that knowledge accessible to sustain and enhance the quality of human life. While 
extending into every community of the state, UF/IFAS has developed an international 
reputation for its accomplishments in teaching, research and extension. The University of 
Florida is an equal opportunity, equal access, affirmative action employer. The 
government in the sunshine laws of Florida require that all documents relating to the 
search process, including letters of application/nomination and reference (except 
transcripts) be available for public inspection. University of Florida is an Affirmative 
Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. 

