Postdoc Position University of Florida, TALEN mediated mutagenesis of 
sugarcane 
Postdoctoral researcher position in TALEN mediated targeted mutagenesis of 
sugarcane is available at the University of Florida. The position will be 
part of our expanding plant metabolic engineering and bioenergy research 
focus, which is co-funded by USDA, USDOE and industry. The postdoc 
researcher will participate in the development of TALEN mediated 
mutagenesis and advanced genetic transformation technology for sugarcane. 
The research objectives include the development of a protocol for TALEN 
mediated mutagenesis of sugarcane and its application for sugarcane 
improvement and transgene stacking. The research will involve vector 
construction, tissue culture, genetic transformation, enzyme and reporter 
gene assays, qRT-PCR, sequencing of the targeted integration site, Southern 
blot analysis, biochemical analysis. For this position the incoming postdoc 
will have extensive experience in vector construction, molecular 
characterization of transgenic plants, tissue culture and genetic 
transformation of plants using agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer, 
experience with homologous or site specific recombination will be a plus. 
 The incoming postdoc will have an excellent command of oral and written 
English and scientific management skills. He or she will be able to prepare 
various reports, publications and grant proposals. We particularly 
encourage recent graduates with the relevant research experience to apply. 
Besides this postdoc position, we also welcome graduate students with 
external support to join us for our expanding bioenergy research. 
The monocot biotechnology research program was established at the 
University of Florida in 2001 and has successfully developed advanced 
protocols for genetic characterization and improvement of sugarcane and 
other grasses via agrobacterium-mediated or biolistic gene transfer (2012 
sugarcane publications: Plant <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22924974> 
Biotechnol J.<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22924974> (2012) 
Dec;10(9):1067-76; In Vitro Cellular & Developmental Biology - Plant (2012) 
48:15-22; Plant Cell Tiss Organ Cult (2012) 111: 131-141; Plant Cell Tiss 
Organ Cult (2012) 108:297-302). The general lab environment is 
collaborative, friendly, dedicated, and constructive. We expect our future 
colleagues to have three calibers. First, he or she should be highly 
motivated, dedicated, proactive on milestones, and enjoying scientific 
research. Second, he or she should have basic scientific training for 
aforementioned background, excellent communication, critical thinking and 
problem solving skills. Third, he or she would like to work relatively 
independently yet also be collegial. University of Florida is a major 
research university located in Gainesville FL. Gainesville, FL provides 
affordable and high quality living. For further information, please visit 
our website http://agronomy.ifas.ufl.edu/fredy-altpeter/profile/. 

If you are interested in this position, please submit your application by 
e-mail to Fredy Altpeter at altpeter@ufl.edu<mailto:altpeter@ufl.edu>. 
Please provide also details on your US visa history (if foreign applicant), 
contact details of three professional references and earliest starting date. 