Two Graduate Research Assistantships (1 Ph.D, 1 Master) in Genetic
Improvement of BIOENERGY Grasses are  available in the Laboratory of
Plant Molecular Physiology, Agronomy Department, IFAS, Univ. of Florida
http://agronomy.ifas.ufl.edu/Altpeter.HTML
<https://email.ifas.ufl.edu/exchweb/bin/redir.asp?URL=http://agronomy.if
as.ufl.edu/Altpeter.HTML> .

 

Lignocellulosic materials produced by biomass grasses are a promising
feedstock to produce low-cost ethanol. Genetic improvement of grasses
through genetic engineering or targeted mutagenesis will enhance their
quality and reduce costs associated with biomass conversion to fuel. A
description of our research objectives to develop genetically enhanced
grasses can be found at:
http://www.mae.ufl.edu/Energy/index.php?src=faculty&ID=79. Efficient
nuclear grass transformation or mutagenesis protocols are established in
our laboratory.

 

Job Description: One selected candidate will focus on RNAi suppression
of rate limiting genes in the lignin biosynthetic pathway, high level
expression of cell wall degrading enzymes or alteration of flowering
time to enhance biomass quality and quantity. The other candidate will
carry out targeted mutagenesis of genes with the potential to enhance
biomass quality and quantity. This will include gene cloning, tissue
culture, gene transfer or mutagenesis, molecular and biochemical
characterization of improved grasses.

 

Qualifications: The successful applicants must have a first-class
Master's or BS degree in Molecular Biology, Biotechnology, Biochemistry,
Plant Science or Microbiology. The successful Ph.D candidate will have
demonstrated experience in standard molecular biology techniques and
plant transformation and a demonstrated ability to perform research at
an advanced level. Superior communication skills and the ability to work
both independently and in a team are essential. 

 

Stipend: Stipend is commensurate with training and experience and will
include tuition and a contribution to health insurance. 

 

Gainesville, the home town of the University of Florida and the Florida
Gators, is located half way between the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of
Mexico with a population of 150 000 (48 000 students) and has frequently
achieved top ratings in quality of life and affordability. University of
Florida is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer
(male/female) and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color,
creed, religion, national origin, ancestry, citizenship, age, gender,
sexual orientation, disability, or Vietnam Era Veteran status in the
offering of all benefits, services, and educational and employment
opportunities.  Women and minorities are encouraged to apply. 
