 
Senior Research Associate (6345BR) 
Johnston, IA 
 
Pioneer Hi-Bred, a DuPont business, is the world leader in the discovery, development 
and delivery of elite crop genetics. We are much more than just a great company. It's a 
place where you will grow, personally and professionally, and be rewarded for 
excellence. Our goal is to help you grow with Pioneer, not just for a few seasons, but 
throughout your entire career. Come see what it means to be part of a world-class 
workforce at Pioneer. We have been named the top large company to work for in the life 
sciences industry by The Scientist magazine's 6th annual Best Places to Work survey. 
Pioneer has ranked the No. 1 large company three times and has consecutively been 
among the Top 30 Companies since the survey began in 2003.
This position will support key trait development efforts directed toward producing corn 
products with added grain value for ethanol industry.  The successful candidate will plan, 
design and execute research experiments independently.  Specifically, this individual will 
design field experiments, manage marker genotyping, supervise/perform phenotypic 
assays, conduct statistical analysis of data, and prepare reports.  To be successful, the 
candidate is expected to collaborate with both internal and external groups. 
 
Masters degree in Genetics or a scientifically related field and 2 to 4 years of plant 
genetics or related experience required, or equivalent amounts of relevant education and 
experience.  The successful candidate will be a highly motivated, innovative individual 
with excellent knowledge in genetics and a familiarity with quantitative genetics. 
Experiences with field experiment design, QTL mapping, molecular marker 
development, computers, and statistical analysis are highly desirable. Strong oral and 
written communication skills and the ability to work in a team environment are essential. 
 
Job req for this position is 6345BR.  To apply, visit www.pioneer.com/careers. EOE
