Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences 

Faculty of Landscape Planning, Horticulture and Agricultural Sciences the Department of Plant Breeding and 
Biotechnology, Alnarp 

Postdoctoral position/Researcher 

[cid:image001.jpg@01CCB9B5.21B83040] 

SLU is an international university, world class 
in life and environmental sciences. We are ranked among the Top 100 of 
ca 5,000 European universities. We have a strong research focus, but we also offer some of Sweden´s most 
in-demand educations; veterinarian, forester, and landscape architect. 
SLU has close to 3,000 employees and some 
5,000 students. Annual turnover is SEK 2.7 billion, and activities are concentrated to the 
main campuses in Uppsala, Alnarp, Umeå and Skara. 
www.slu.se&lt;http://www.slu.se/> 

The research programme Mistra Biotech - Biotechnology for Sustainable and Competitive Agriculture and Food 
Systems starts in the beginning of 2012. The programme is interdisciplinary with the research areas plant 
biotechnology, novel molecular breeding tools, ethics, consumers' attitudes and choices and Swedish 
competitiveness. A centre for agriculture and food system analysis 
and synthesis will be developed. The Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) is hosting the programme. 
Lund University and KTH are partners. The major funders of the programme are the Foundation for strategic 
environmental research (Mistra) and SLU. 

The successful applicant will work in a creative and stimulating research environment where a large number of 
scientists with broad international networks are working on plant lipids and starch metabolism, plant stress 
biology, plant biotechnology, conventional and molecular plant breeding at the Department of Plant Breeding and 
Biotechnology and the Department of Plant Protection Biology at SLU in Alnarp. Moreover, the recently established 
Plant Link center in Southern Sweden and the Mistra biotech program will provide excellent platforms for 
collaborations with researchers outside the campus. 

Duties: 

The postdoc will mainly work with disease resistance in barley and potato, especially with site-directed-
mutagenesis. 

Qualifications: We seek a highly motivated, devoted and independent candidate with a PhD degree in molecular 
biology or molecular genetics. The applicant must have a solid background in plant molecular biology and 
genetics. Experience in managing research projects and supervising PhD 
students are a merit. The post is fully financed for at least two years, however, the applicant should have a 
great potential to obtain his/her own research funds after two years. The applicant must be fluent in both 
written and spoken English. 

Form of employment: Temporary employment for 2 years 
Extent: 100 % 
Starting date: By agreement 

SLU is an equal opportunity employer. 

University salaries are set on an individual basis. 

Further information: 
Li-Hua Zhu 
Professor 
+46(0) 40-41 53 73 
Li-Hua.Zhu@slu.se<mailto:Li-Hua.Zhu@slu.se> 

Erik Andreasson 
Professor 
+46(0) 40-41 53 49 
Erik.Andreasson@slu.se<mailto:Erik.Andreasson@slu.se> 

Academic union representatives: Andrus Kangro, SACO 
+46 (0)40 415 479 

Peter Syrjänen, SEKO 
+46 (0)18 67 10 57 

Jörgen Olsson, ST 
+46 (0)40 415 431 

We welcome your application marked with Ref no. SLU ua 
3854/2011. Please submit your application to the 
Registrar of SLU, P.O. Box 
7070, S-750 07 Uppsala, Sweden or registrator@slu.se <mailto:registrator@slu.se> no later than January 9, 
2012. 

It is desirable that the application is written in English, because the applications will be evaluated by 
expert advisers both in Sweden and abroad. 