Position Announcement
Assistant or Associate Professor – Plant Metabolomics
College of Food, Agricultural and Natural Resource Sciences
University of Minnesota

The University of Minnesota invites applications for a tenure-track Assistant or 
Associate Professor position in a new initiative in “Future Food and 
Agricultural Systems” in the area of plant metabolomics. This initiative brings 
together researchers across the College of Food, Agricultural and Natural 
Resource Sciences (CFANS), the College of Veterinary Medicine, and the College 
of Biological Sciences to develop viable, competitive, and sustainable food, 
water, and agricultural systems. This collective research spans the spectrum 
from cells to organisms to agricultural systems to ecosystems. This initiative 
builds excellence through launching new intellectual clusters which should 
provide a competitive advantage to adapt complex agricultural systems to 
changing environmental needs and societal demands. The tenure home for the 
position will be based on the successful applicant’s interest area and in one of 
the departments in the plant science cluster in the College of Food, 
Agricultural and Natural Resource Sciences at the University of Minnesota 
(Department of Agronomy and Plant Genetics, Department of Plant Biology, 
Department of Horticultural Science, Department of Plant Pathology).
  Position: Plant Metabolomics, nine-month, tenure-track Assistant or Associate 
Professor, 50% teaching, 50% research.

Closing Date: Review of applications will begin on February 15, 2007 and 
continue until a suitable candidate is identified.

Responsibilities. The University of Minnesota is seeking candidates in the field 
of plant metabolomics, primary or secondary metabolism, and natural product 
biochemistry. The ideal candidate will explore important questions in applied 
and basic plant science through the use of high-throughput metabolic profiling 
and other metabolomic techniques. Individuals who integrate plant metabolic 
research together with genomic and proteomic technologies or who develop novel 
methods for metabolite identification and flux analysis are especially 
encouraged to apply. Opportunities exist for interactions with colleagues in 
programs such as the Microbial and Plant Genomics Institute, the Center for Mass 
Spectrometry and Proteomics, the Initiative for Renewable Energy and the 
Environment, and the Healthy Foods, Healthy Lives Initiative. The successful 
candidate will be expected to develop a vigorous research program supported by 
extramural funding and also to contribute to undergraduate and graduate teaching 
in their area of expertise. This position is offered by the Plant Sciences 
Cluster at the University of Minnesota, a group of four plant related 
departments. Required Qualifications: A Ph.D. or equivalent foreign degree by 
the date of appointment and research experience in a field relevant to plant 
metabolomics, plant metabolism, plant biochemistry, or related fields. Preferred 
Qualifications: Postdoctoral training and experience in research related to 
plant metabolomics. Documented ability to compete for extramural grants. 
Evidence of successful cross-disciplinary research. Documented teaching 
experience such as teaching assistant, guest lecturing, and/or participation in 
teaching enrichment programs is desired. Salary and Benefits: Salary is 
competitive and commensurate with experience and qualifications. Benefits 
include employee health, dental, and faculty life/disability insurance, social 
security, faculty retirement and opportunities for professional development, 
including sabbatical and semester leave opportunities.

Application: Apply online at: https://employment.umn.edu/ (search for 
Requisition #145107). Candidates should attach a cover letter, curriculum vitae, 
statement of research and teaching accomplishments, experience and interests (3 
pages). The candidate should arrange to have three letters of reference from 
professional colleagues forwarded to the search committee: Plant Metabolomics 
Search Committee, College of Food, Agricultural and Natural Resource Sciences, 
Attn: Jean Burdick, 1420 Eckles Ave, 277 Coffey Hall, St. Paul, MN 55108, mail 
to: burdi005@umn.edu, 612-624-0780. Written application, as an alternative to 
the online system, may also be submitted to this address. Incomplete 
applications will not be considered.


For further information, please contact Search Committee Co-Chairs Jerry Cohen 
at 612-624-9212, cohen047@umn.edu or David Marks at 612-625-6737, 
marks004@umn.edu. Information about CFANS may be found at 
http://www.cfans.umn.edu/. Benefits are described at 
http://www1.umn.edu/ohr/benefits/index.html.

The University of Minnesota is committed to the policy that all persons shall 
have equal access to its programs, facilities, and employment without regard to 
race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, 
disability, public assistance status, veteran status or sexual orientation.

