The newly established Center for Agricultural and Environmental 
Biotechnology (CAEB) has an opening for a Research Biologist focused 
on 
ethnobotany and/or plant ecology. The focus and goal of the Center is 
to 
conduct advanced agricultural and biotechnology research that enhances 
understanding of critical plant-microbe interactions, physiological 
processes, and metabolomic modeling that enables a wide range of 
commercial applications related to agricultural sustainability, food 
security & safety, renewable energy, ethnobotany, green biotechnology, 
and bioremediation. 

The successful candidate will work closely with the CAEB Director and 
other scientists as part of a multidisciplinary team. In addition to 
being responsible for a research program, which will be defined within 
the Center's goals, the candidate will be responsible for the 
supervision of students and technical support staff. The 
responsibilities further include the daily planning, execution and 
quality control of the research, and writing research proposals and 
research papers. 

The successful candidate should have a Ph.D. in plant ecology, plant 
physiology and/or plant biotechnology, at least 2 years Post Doctoral 
experience, and an excellent track record in performing original 
interdisciplinary research, as reflected by the publication record. A 
background in field research is required. The ideal candidate has 
experience in studying plant biodiversity at the multidimensional 
levels, such as plant associations with microorganisms, and experience 
in plant metabolomics, e.g. of medicinal plants. Excellent 
interpersonal 
and communication skills coupled with a demonstrated ability to work 
with others in a collegial team atmosphere are required. The candidate 
should be willing to travel abroad to assist in field work. 

The successful candidate will also assist the CAEB Director to define 
and implement the CAEB strategic plan, as well as to support other 
programs at RTI International. 

To qualify, applicants must be legally authorized to work in the 
United 
States and should not require now, or in the future, sponsorship for 
employment visa status. 

We are proud to be an EEO/AA employer M/F/D/V. Specific information 
regarding the laws that are designed to protect you against 
discrimination relating to your legal right to work in the US can be 
located at the employment portal www.rti.org/jobs 

