Mendel Biotechnology, Inc. has several positions available at the 
research scientist and research associate levels.  Please apply to only 
one of the following job descriptions: 
 
Research Scientist - Chemical and Genetic Screening 
 
Mendel Biotechnology, Inc., invites applications for a Research 
Scientist position in Chemical and Genetic Screening. The candidate must 
be familiar with the use of forward genetic approaches to gene discovery 
in Arabidopsis. In addition, the position will involve the development 
and characterization of in planta reporter assay systems for pathway 
analysis and high-throughput chemical discovery. The ability to perform 
in a cooperative team environment and communicate effectively in English 
is essential. A strong background in organic chemistry is advantageous. 
Applicants must have a PhD in plant biology, genetics, chemical biology 
or a related field. Must be a U.S. citizen or have authorization to work 
in the U.S. 
To apply, please send a letter of interest, CV, and contact information 
for three references (including email addresses) to: 
job90+b@mendelbio.com 
 
Research Associate - Chemical and Genetic Screening 
 
Mendel Biotechnology, Inc., invites applications for a Research 
Associate position in Chemical and Genetic Screening. The candidate will 
perform both plate and soil based Arabidopsis assays to characterize 
genetic pathways. Experience with Arabidopsis is a necessity. A strong 
background in organic chemistry is desirable. Applicants must have a 
Bachelors degree with 2 years experience or Masters Degree in plant 
biology, plant genetics or related discipline. Must be a U.S. citizen or 
have authorization to work in the U.S. 
To apply, please send a letter of interest, CV, and contact information 
for three references (including email addresses) to: 
job91+b@mendelbio.com 
 
Research Scientist - Molecular Biology 
 
Mendel Biotechnology, Inc., invites applications for a Research 
Scientist position in Molecular Biology. The candidate must be an expert 
in vector design and cloning technology; experience with 
high-throughput, semi-automated molecular biology techniques is highly 
desirable. The position will demand fluency with a suite of standard 
software tools (VectorNTI, Sequencher, etc.) and the use of databases to 
track a pipeline of projects. Strong written and oral communication 
skills in the English language are required. Applicants must have a PhD 
in molecular biology or related field and at least 2 years of 
post-doctoral experience. Applicants with industry experience are 
especially encouraged to apply. Must be a U.S. citizen or have 
authorization to work in the U.S. 
To apply, please send a letter of interest, CV, and contact information 
for three references (including email addresses) to: 
job92+b@mendelbio.com 
 
Research Scientist - Molecular/Protein Interactions 
 
Mendel Biotechnology, Inc., invites applications for a Research 
Scientist position in Molecular Interactions. The candidate must have 
demonstrated expertise with protein chemistry techniques including 
co-immunoprecipitation (CoIP). Familiarity with chromatin 
immunoprecipitation and experience with yeast two-hybrid and other 
high-throughput protein-protein interaction screening methodology is 
also required. Preference will be given to applicants with experience 
working with Arabidopsis. Strong written and oral communication skills 
in the English language are required. Applicants must have a PhD in 
biochemistry, molecular biology or related field and at least 2 years of 
post-doctoral experience. Must be a U.S. citizen or have authorization 
to work in the U.S. 
To apply, please send a letter of interest, CV, and contact information 
for three references (including email addresses) to: 
job93+b@mendelbio.com 
 
Research Associates (multiple positions) - Molecular Biology and 
Molecular/Protein Interactions 
 
Mendel Biotechnology, Inc., invites applications for Research Associate 
positions in Molecular Biology and Molecular Interactions. The 
candidates will have previous experience with the application of a broad 
array of molecular biology (PCR, subcloning, bacterial and yeast 
transformation, etc.) and/or protein chemistry (gel electrophoresis, 
protein purification, blotting, etc.) techniques in a research 
laboratory. The positions will involve the use of laboratory automation 
in a high-throughput team environment, demanding comfort with both 
standard (Microsoft Office) and custom software applications. Applicants 
must have a Bachelors or Masters Degree in molecular biology, 
biochemistry, genetics or equivalent with a minimum of 5 years 
experience with a Bachelors, or 2 years with a Masters degree. Must be a 
U.S. citizen or have authorization to work in the U.S. 
To apply, please send a letter of interest, CV, and contact information 
for three references (including email addresses) to: 
job94+b@mendelbio.com 
 
Research Scientist - Plant Systems Biology & Expression Profiling 
 
Mendel Biotechnology, Inc., invites applications for a Research 
Scientist position in Plant Systems Biology and Expression Profiling. 
The candidate needs to have expertise in both computer science, 
statistics or mathematics, and biology. Basic level computer programming 
capabilities are required, as are proven skills analyzing large sets of 
gene expression/microarray data as well as DNA and protein sequences. 
The successful applicant will work with tools for processing, analyzing 
and visualizing large datasets, including using mathematical models for 
predicting gene expression network organization and de novo 
identification of cis-acting promoter regulatory elements. Candidates 
who have previously worked with plant systems are especially encouraged 
to apply. Applicants must have a PhD with a minimum of 1 year 
postdoctoral experience. Strong written and oral communication skills in 
the English language are considered essential. Must be a U.S. citizen or 
have authorization to work in the U.S. 
To apply, please send a letter of interest, CV, and contact information 
for three references (including email addresses) to: 
job79+b@mendelbio.com
