Post-doc position available in Plant Molecular Biology: The chloroplast
vesicle transport system

Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences

University of Gothenburg, Sweden (www.dpes.gu.se)

We seek a highly motivated person who is interested in attending a
post-doc period in Plant Molecular Biology. The topic deals with
vesicular transport inside the chloroplast using the plant model
Arabidopsis thaliana. The position is funded for 12 months by Carl
Tryggers Foundation and can be prolonged if successful. The grant is
20000 SEK/month (~2000 EUROS/month).

We aim to further test the hypothesis of a chloroplast localized
vesicular transport system, similar to the membrane transport between
the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus. Some years ago
several proteins were identified as putative chloroplast-localized
proteins with a high sequence similarity to components of cytosolic
vesicular trafficking (Andersson & Sandelius 2004, BMC). Recently we
published a paper for one of these proteins, which we call CPSAR1
(Garcia et al. 2010, Plant J, in press). The paper describes CPSAR1 as a
potential actor in chloroplast vesicular trafficking, which will promote
investigations into this poorly characterized process and in thylakoid
biogenesis. We now aim to obtain biochemical data for more putative
proteins involved in the chloroplast vesicle transport system.

An ideal applicant should posses a PhD degree in plant molecular biology
or a related field necessary to accomplish the mission given. Computer
skills are necessary and general genetics and molecular biology
laboratory skills are required. Experience from work with protein
expression, vesicles and GFP imaging is a plus.

Please submit your CV, a letter describing your research interest and
skills, list of publications, and contact information for two references
by email to Dr Henrik Aronsson (henrik.aronsson@dpes.gu.se). Please include 
when you will be able to start the position. Application deadline is 17th 
of May.

For further information please email Henrik Aronsson, PI of this project. 
