A Post-Doctoral stipend is available for working in Professor Anna Stina Sandelius group 
at Gothenburg University, Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences: 
 
Plant lipid trafficking and membrane contact sites 
 
A post doc stipend is available for studies of lipid transfer mechanisms involved in 
adjusting the plasma membrane lipid composition during phospholipid-to-DGDG 
replacement in plasma membranes in phosphate-limited plants. Besides using 
biochemical/molecular techniques, the post doc will be the biological lab partner in the 
ongoing collaboration with colleagues at the Department of Physics, where optical 
manipulation is used to study membrane-membrane contact sites between plant 
organelles (e.g. between endoplasmic reticulum and chloroplasts; between endoplasmic 
reticulum and plasma membrane). 
 
The stipend is for one year, with the possible extension for an additional year. The 
appointment should begin preferably no later than early September 2008, but an earlier 
start would be welcome. The tax-free stipend roughly corresponds to 1900 Euros (SEK 
18,000) per month and work-related insurance will be covered. 
 
Deadline for application is April 30, 2008. Preferably, the application should be mailed as 
one pdf document. The application should include CV, publication list, copy of PhD 
certificate and a short description (2-4 pages) of research experience and interests, 
methodological skills and other activities of relevance. The applicant should also provide 
contact information of at least two reference persons. If publications are not readily 
available on the web, copies of the three most significant ones should be included. 
 
E-mail the application to: annastina.sandelius@dpes.gu.se and please feel free to contact 
me for further information, by e-mail or phone +46 31 7862611 or +46 70532 4151! You 
can also contact a former Ph D student, Dr Mats Andersson (who will return to the 
department this spring): mats.andersson@dpes.gu.se; or contact 
henrik.tjellstrom@dpes.gu.se (the present Ph D student Henrik Tjellström). 
 
(Mail address: Professor Anna Stina Sandelius, University of Gothenburg, Dept of Plant 
and 
Environmental Sciences, PO Box 461, SE 405 30 Göteborg, Sweden) 
 
The Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences has 50+ faculty members and 
around 40 Ph D students involved in four research areas: applied environmental sciences, 
evolutionary botany, plant ecology and ecotoxicology, and plant molecular biology. 
 
Read more about the research project in: 
Andersson MX, Larsson KE, Tjellström H, Liljenberg C, Sandelius AS (2005) 
Phosphate-limited oat: 
The plasma membrane and the tonoplast as major targets for phospholipid-to-glycolipid 
replacement and stimulation of phospholipases in the plasma membrane. J Biol Chem 
280:27578 
 
Andersson MX, Goksör M, Sandelius AS (2007) Optical manipulation reveals strong 
attracting forces at membrane contact sites between endoplasmic reticulum and 
chloroplasts. J Biol Chem 282:1170 
 
Larsson KE, Kjellberg JM, Tjellström H, Sandelius AS (2007) LysoPC 
acyltransferase/PC transacylase activities in plant plasma membrane and plasma 
membrane-associated endoplasmic reticulum. BMC Plant Biol 7:64 (doi:10.1186/1471-
2229-7-64).
