POST-DOCTORAL POSITION

The role of RNA silencing in stress adaptation

Arabidopsis histone deacetylase 6 (HDA6) is required for promoter inactivation triggered by 
homologous double-stranded RNAs (RNA silencing) in a process called RNA-directed DNA 
methylation (RdDM) (Aufsatz et al. (2002), EMBO 21, 6832-6841). In addition to the function of 
HDA6 in RNA silencing, preliminary data indicate a role for HDA6 in the tolerance of plants to a 
subset of abiotic stress treatments. Our current experiments aim at the identification of direct 
molecular targets of HDA6 in stress-treated plants.
A 2-3 year postdoctoral position is now available within a network project that investigates the 
impact of different abiotic stress regimes on the (epi)genome of Arabidopsis. This network 
project involves expert groups in the field of stress signaling and (epi)genetics. Your role in this 
project will be the analysis of short and long-term perturbations of RNA-mediated epigenetic 
control in stress-treated wild-type plants and diverse mutant plants that are defective in the 
production, amplification or function of endogenous small RNAs. Mutants will also be analyzed 
for their ability to adapt to stress conditions. The project will start from April 2006 on.

Qualifications:
A strong background in plant genetics and general molecular biology is mandatory. Experience in 
the field of epigenetics and in techniques used to study DNA methylation and chromatin 
modifications (i.e. bisulfite sequencing, methylation-sensitive PCR, chromatin IP) would be 
ideal.

To apply, please send a letter of motivation, a detailed CV with a brief description of your 
research experience/interest and names/ email addresses of two references to:
Werner Aufsatz
email: Werner.Aufsatz@gmi.oeaw.ac.at
phone: +43 1 79044 9820
fax: + 43 1 79044 9001
Gregor Mendel Institute of Molecular Plant Biology
http://www.gmi.oeaw.ac.at/waufsatz.htm
Dr. Bohrgasse 3
A-1030 Vienna
Austria

Applications/inquiries via Email are preferred.
