The Department of Biology at The Pennsylvania State University invites applications for tenure-track faculty positions at the Assistant, Associate, or Full Professor level in Plant Biology, with research programs in molecular, cellular, and/or developmental aspects of plant biology. We particularly encourage applications from individuals whose work is related to energy storage in plants (including carbon partitioning; synthesis of cell walls, starch and lipids; and genetic control of these metabolic pathways) as well as other areas related to the physiology and development of land plants.  Penn State is an international center for plant biology research, with particular emphases in cell biology, development, genomics, ecology, and evolution. Penn State has an outstanding interdisciplinary plant biology graduate program (http://www.huck.psu.edu/education/plant-biology), excellent plant growth facilities, and a number of core resources that provide research support (http://www.huck.psu.edu/facilities), including bioimaging, molecular biology, genomics, and proteomics. Interaction with existing research programs is particularly encouraged. Prospective candidates should have a strong record of research accomplishments, ability to secure extramural grants, and a commitment to teaching undergraduates. Candidates should email a letter of application, curriculum vitae, research prospectus, statement of teaching interests, and names and contact information of at least three references, all as a single PDF document, to plantenergy4@bio.psu.edu. Publications and manuscripts (not more than three) may also be submitted as separate PDF documents along with the application. Review of completed applications will begin November 23, 2009.

Penn State is committed to affirmative action, equal opportunity and the diversity of its workforce.

Michael J. Axtell, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor of Biology
410 Life Sciences Bldg.
Pennsylvania State University
University Park, PA  16802  USA
PH: 814-867-0241
http://www.bio.psu.edu/people/faculty/Axtell/AxtellLab/
