4 Post doc positions within Plant Biology
at the University of Copenhagen

The Department of Plant Biology and the Department of Agricultural Sciences 
(Faculty of Life Sciences) and the Department of Molecular Biology (Faculty of 
Science) invite applications for 4 post doc positions.

Job descriptions
The four post doc positions are in specific areas of molecular plant biology. 
The main responsibility will be to carry out research. The post may include 
teaching to a limited extent.

Position 1: Post doc within Genetics and biochemistry of natural resistance
This is a joint post doc position between the Department of Plant Biology and 
the Department of Agricultural Sciences (Faculty of Life Sciences) from 1 May 
2007 to 30 April 2009. The project involves research aimed at understanding 
natural mechanisms in plants that underpin resistance towards herbivorous 
insects. The research is multidisciplinary. It will include the development of 
genetic markers for mapping of resistance to flea beetle larvae in Barbarea 
vulgaris. Mapping of metabolites and metabolic clusters that correlate with 
insect resistance by global metabolite profiling by LC-MS and multivariate data 
analysis. Identification and characterisation of genes and enzymes related to 
insect resistance. 

The appointee should have qualifications within the following areas:
*	molecular biology 
*	genetics
*	biochemistry
*	metabolite profiling
*	chemical ecology
*	knowledge of statistics and bioinformatics.

Position 2: Post doc within Plant Cell Wall Biology 
This position is at the Department of Plant Biology (Faculty of Life Sciences) 
from 1 May 2007 to 31 October 2009. Duties will include research within the 
regulation of plant cell wall biosynthesis and targeted modification of plant 
cell walls. The post doc will work on two projects that are both joint projects 
with the post doc in position 3. One project is aimed at understanding the 
regulation of cell wall biogenesis in Arabidopsis. The other project will use 
knowledge about cell wall biogenesis to modify cell walls in the model grass 
Brachypodium with the aim of improving bioenergy production.

An applicant with strong qualifications within the following prioritized 
disciplines will be preferred:
*	biochemistry and molecular biology
*	genetics
*	biochemical characterization of complex carbohydrates
*	plant molecular biology and plant transformation.

Position 3: Post doc within Plant Cell Wall Biology 
This position is at the Department of Molecular Biology (Faculty of Science) 
from 1 May 2007 to 30 April 2009. Duties will include research within the 
regulation of plant cell wall biosynthesis and targeted modification of plant 
cell walls. The post doc will work on two projects that are joint with the post 
doc in position 2. One project is aimed at gaining understanding of the 
regulation of cell wall biogenesis in Arabidopsis. The other project will use 
knowledge about cell wall biogenesis to modify cell walls in the model grass 
Brachypodium with the aim of improving bioenergy production. The appointee 
should ideally have experience within one or more of the following areas:


*	plant cell wall biology
*	biochemistry and molecular biology
*	immunocytochemistry, microscopy of plant materials
*	experience with plant molecular biology is an advantage but not essential
*	experience with complex carbohydrates is an advantage but not essential.


Position 4: Post doc within Improving the nutritional value of tropical crops 
using gene technology 
This position is at the Department of Plant Biology (Faculty of Life Sciences) 
from 1 May 2007 to 31 October 2009. Duties will include research within 
molecular breeding of cassava. Cassava is a crop of major importance especially 
in tropical regions. Our main aim is to improve the nutritional value of cassava 
by improving the protein content and by reducing the cyanogenic glucoside 
content in the tubers. As part of this, the in planta role of cyanogenic 
glucosides needs elucidation. 

An applicant with strong qualifications within the following prioritized 
disciplines will be preferred: 
*	molecular biology
*	biochemistry
*	metabolic profiling
*	transport in plants
*	transformation of plants besides Arabidopsis.


Qualification requirements
In connection with the appointment to the four posts, special importance will be 
attached to the applicants having the professional and personal qualifications 
stated below: 
*	documented scientific qualifications such as a PhD or equivalent in 
relation to the above subject areas
*	fluency in English. Faculty of Life Sciences generally encourages 
employees who do not speak Danish to acquire a working knowledge of the language
*	good communication skills.

The post docs are also required to be enterprising and to posses good co-
operative and interpersonal skills.

Terms of employment
The posts will be filled according to the Agreement between the Danish Ministry 
of Finance and the Danish Confederation of Professional Associations. The posts 
are covered by the Protocol on Job Structure. 

For further information about the posts, please contact
Position 1: 
Professor Søren Bak, Department of Plant Biology on tel. (+45) 3528 3346, email: 
bak@life.ku.dk or Professor Sven Bode Andersen, Department of Agricultural 
Sciences on tel. (+45) 3528 3444, email: sba@life.ku.dk.

Position 2: 
Professor Henrik Vibe Scheller, Department of Plant Biology on tel. (+45) 3528 
3354, email hvs@life.ku.dk.

Position 3: 
Associate Professor William T. Willats, Department of Molecular Biology on tel. 
(+45) 3532 2132, email willats@my.molbio.ku.dk.

Position 4: 
Professor Birger Lindberg Møller, Department of Plant Biology on tel (+45) 3528 
3352, e-mail blm@life.ku.dk or Associate Professor Kirsten Jørgensen, Department 
of Plant Biology on tel (+45) 3528 3346, e-mail kij@life.ku.dk.


Applications
The applications must be submitted in 4 (sorted). The applications must include 
a reply e-mail address. All applications must clearly specify which of the four 
posts that are applied for. If an applicant applies for more than one position 
each application must include the following appendices marked with the stated 
appendix numbers:

Appendix 1: 	curriculum vitae with documentation of education.
Appendix 2:	a complete list of publications and list of submitted appendices.
Appendix 3: 	a maximum of 10 relevant scientific works which the applicant 
wishes to be included in the assessment.
Appendix 4:	documentation of research and teaching qualifications.

The applications must be accompanied by: a floppy disc or CD-ROM in WordXP/2003 
legible format with appendices 1 and 2.

In addition to the material the applicants wishes to be included in the 
assessment, the Assessment Committee may include further material in their 
assessment of the applicants. In such circumstances, it is the responsibility of 
the applicants, on request, to send the material to the committee.

Following processing of the applications, any application material sent will be 
destroyed.

Receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged, but the applicants will be 
kept continuously informed of the progress of the applications. 

The applicants will be assessed according to the Ministry of Science Technology 
and Innovation Executive Order no 170 of 17. March 2005.

The application for: position 1 marked 621-80-1 , for position 2 marked 621-80-
2, for position 3 marked 621-80-3 and for position 4 marked 621-80-4 should be 
sent to Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Faculty Service, 
Bülowsvej 17, DK-1870 Frederiksberg C, Denmark, where it must be received no 
later than April 16th 20007 at 12.00 noon.
Applications received after the closing date for applications will not be 
considered. 
 
As an Equal Opportunities Employer, the University of Copenhagen welcomes 
applications from suitably qualified people from all sections of the scientific 
community, regardless of age, gender, race, religion or ethnic background.




