Postdoctoral Research Associate in the group of Dr Janneke Balk, Department of Plant Sciences, 
University of Cambridge 
 
Salary: £27,183-£35,469 pa Limit of tenure: grant funding is available for 3 years in the first 
instance. Start date: as soon as possible 
 
Applicants must have a PhD, and a strong background in biochemistry. Experience with 
recombinant protein expression is also desirable. 
 
This project is funded by the BBSRC and includes part-time technical assistance. 
 
 
Project: The function and substrate of the ABC transporters of the mitochondria 
 
The ABC transporters of the mitochondria (ATM) have an important function in metal 
homeostasis and the biogenesis of cytosolic/nuclear iron-sulfur (Fe-S) proteins. The substate(s) 
of these transporters has not been identified, however. Recently we have characterized a range 
of mutants in the Arabidopsis ATM1, ATM2 and ATM3 genes, and found that only ATM3 plays an 
important role in cytosolic Fe-S protein biogenesis. In contrast to its yeast and mammalian 
orthologues, atm3 mutants do not accumulate iron in the mitochondria, suggesting that a sulfide 
compound, rather than Fe-S, is transported by ATMs to the cytosol. To determine the precise 
nature of the substrate, this project will combine a number of in vivo and in vitro strategies. The 
project involves collaborations with Professor Roland Lill, Marburg (Fe-S protein biogenesis in 
yeast), Dr Henrik van Veen at the department of Pharmacology, Cambridge (ABC transporters), 
Professor Ralf Mendel and Dr Florian Bittner, Braunschweig (Moco biosynthesis) and Professor 
Rüdiger Hell and Dr Andreas Meyer, Heidelberg (sulfur metabolism and glutathione in plants). 
 
Selected references: Bernard DG, Cheng Y, Zhao, Y and Balk J. An allelic mutant series of ATM3 
reveals its key role in the biogenesis of cytosolic iron-sulfur proteins in Arabidopsis (manuscript 
provisionally accepted for publication and available on request). Balk J and Lobréaux, S (2005). 
Biogensis of iron-sulfur proteins in plants. Trends Plant Sci. 10: 324-331. 
 
Dr Janneke Balk started an independent research group in 2005, focussing on Fe-S protein 
biogenesis in (higher) eukaryotes. Her dynamic and international group is rapidly expanding and 
moving to new laboratory space this autumn. The University of Cambridge is a world-class 
research institute, which is particulary strong in biomedical sciences. 
 
For further enqueries: Janneke Balk, jb511@cam.ac.uk 
To apply, see http://www.plantsci.cam.ac.uk/jobs/content.html  

