Assistant Professor in Plant Biology 
Washington University in St. Louis 

 The Department of Biology at Washington University is seeking a colleague 
working in the area of Plant Biology to fill a tenure-track faculty position 
at the Assistant Professor level. We are interested in candidates who employ 
innovative approaches to conduct research in areas such as plant 
development, cell biology, biochemistry or epigenetics. Applicants should 
have a Ph.D. degree, significant research accomplishments, and a dedication 
to excellence in graduate and undergraduate education. Extensive 
opportunities for interdisciplinary interaction and collaboration are 
available within the plant biology community 
(http://wubio.wustl.edu/plant_biology), which includes the Donald Danforth 
Plant Sciences Center (http://www.ddpsc.org/), and in the broader life 
science community at Washington University (http://dbbs.wustl.edu/) and 
other St. Louis institutions, including the Missouri Botanical Garden. 

Review of applications will begin November 1, 2010. Applications will be 
accepted until the position is filled. Please submit a cover letter, 
curriculum vita, brief statements of research and teaching interests, 
reprints of up to three papers, and the names and affiliations of three 
persons who have been asked to send letters of recommendation. We prefer 
electronic submissions, which can be submitted to the following e-mail 
address: 
Plant.search@biology2.wustl.edu 

If necessary, hard copy applications can be mailed to the following address: 

Plant Science Search Committee 
Department of Biology 
Washington University 
Campus Box 1137 
One Brookings Drive 
St. Louis, MO 63130-4899 

The Biology Department is also searching for faculty colleagues in ecology 
at the assistant professor level and for an endowed professorship in 
environmental biology at the senior level. For further information on the 
Department of Biology and these other searches, see www.wubio.wustl.edu. 

Washington University is committed to excellence through diversity, and we 
particularly encourage applications from persons from underrepresented 
groups. Washington University is an Affirmative Action Employer. 

