[Arabidopsis] Postdoctoral position at WVU


POSITION DETAILS

Job Type: Postdoctoral
Job Title: Mechanisms of Cadmium Tolerance in Populus and Arabidopsis
Job Organization: Department of Biology, West Virginia University
Organization Type: Nonprofit
Job Location: Morgantown WV USA
Specialties: 
MB - Molecular Biology/Gene Regulation

Other Specialties: Ph.D. in Genetics, Plant Physiology, or other degree related to plant genomics. Training in bioinformatics, 
quantitative genetics, microarray analysis, and familiarity with Arabidopsis, hybrid poplar, and metals would be beneficial. 

Application Instructions: Review of applications will begin on August 21, 2006 and continue until position is filled. Send CV 
and a cover letter detailing experience, and contact information for at least two references to: Dr. Stephen DiFazio, 
Stephen.DiFazio@mail.wvu.edu. 
Related Web Site: http://www.as.wvu.edu/~sdifazio 
Job Contact Email: Stephen.DiFazio@mail.wvu.edu 
Ad Run Time: 1 bimonthly period

Description:
A postdoctoral research associate position is available to study the mechanisms of cadmium tolerance in Populus trees and 
Arabidopsis. Responsibilities include implementing experiments on the uptake and detoxification of cadmium, gene regulation in 
response to metal exposure, and the quantitative genetics, biochemistry, and molecular biology of metal tolerance and accumulation.  
In addition, the successful candidate will be in charge of the department’s genomics core facility, requiring expertise in gene 
sequencing and general knowledge of molecular biology instrumentation. Opportunities also exist to write research grant proposals 
in collaboration with Dr. DiFazio, Dr. Carina Barth, Dr. Benoit Van Aken, and Dr. Jonathan Cumming. A doctoral degree in a relevant 
area of Plant Biology is required. Additional requirements include demonstrated expertise in quantitative genetics, genomics, and 
basic molecular biology techniques, and effective written and verbal communication skills. Anticipated starting date is 
October 1, 2006. Salary: $35,000/annually. West Virginia University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.



Carina Barth
Assistant Professor
Department of Biology
West Virginia University
5228 Life Sciences Building
53 Campus Drive
Morgantown, WV 26506-6057

Phone Office: 304-293-5201 ext 31099
Phone Lab:     304-293-5201 ext 31541
Fax:                304-293-6363
Email: Carina.Barth@mail.wvu.edu

