Scientific Curator, Biological Research Database, Carnegie Institute, 
Stanford, CA

TAIR, The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://arabidopsis.org) is a 
National Science Foundation-funded web resource for thousands of plant biology 
researchers worldwide, providing free access to a wide array of biological data and 
tools for the model plant Arabidopsis.  The Carnegie Institution Department of Plant 
Biology is co-located with the Department of Global Ecology on a seven-acre site on 
the campus of Stanford University.

We are currently seeking applicants for the position of scientific curator to join us in 
our functional annotation effort. The successful candidate will work with a team of 
curators, software engineers, and database developers to provide data from the 
experimental primary literature to over 13,000 users of the TAIR website and 
database.  The main responsibilities of this position include reading current research 
articles to extract gene function and other attributes for loading into the TAIR 
database, answering questions from the community on how to use the site, presenting 
information on how to use TAIR at meetings and workshops, assisting scientists with 
large data submissions, assisting with the design of new or improved web interfaces 
and tools, and participating in the development of controlled vocabulary terms for 
gene annotation.

The ideal candidate will have a Ph.D in Biology or related discipline with research 
experience in plant biology, a demonstrated ability for independent, critical thinking, 
excellent written and verbal communication skills, the ability to work well as part of a 
team and good basic computer skills.  Experience with Internet-based literature 
searching, Unix, HTML and mySQL would be useful but is not required.
This is an on-site position, telecommuters will not be considered. Qualified candidates 
should email a cover letter, CV and names of 3 references to Dr. Tanya Berardini at: 
tberardini@arabidopsis.org .
The Carnegie Institution of Washington is an equal opportunity employer.











