PhD position (Perth, Australia) - Phosphite Induced Resistance to 
Phytophthora cinnamomi. 
 
 
 
The oomycete pathogen Phytophthora cinnamomi is causing a devastating 
pandemic of native Australian plant species which threatens the 
sustainability of many native ecosystems with consequent effects on 
fauna.  Many of the threatened plant species are on the verge of 
extinction as they are unique to Australia.  The disease can be managed 
using the chemical phosphite, an analogue of phosphate.  Application of 
phosphite makes plants to resistant to infection. A position is 
available for a postgraduate student with interests in plant molecular 
biology and plant pathology to investigate how phosphite induces 
resistance in plants. The focus will be on the use of Arabidopsis 
thaliana as a model system.  The project will involve the use of 
transcriptomic, metabolomic, or proteomic approaches and the 
construction of transgenic plants to investigate how resistance 
develops. 
 
 
 
The project is a joint Murdoch University / University of Western 
Australia project funded by the Australian Research Council in 
partnership with Dept. of Environment and Conservation, Minerals and 
Energy Research Institute of Western Australia, Alcoa World Alumina, and 
TiWest. The student will be based with the Phytophthora research team at 
Murdoch University in Perth but will be working with a multidisciplinary 
team including plant ecophysiologists, plant molecular biologists, and 
plant pathologists from the University of Western Australia, and the 
industry partners.  A tax free stipend of $25,118 and a generous 
operating allowance will apply.  In addition there will be opportunities 
for travel to national and international conferences as well as 
additional funding opportunities and interaction with other scientists 
and students. 
 
 
 
The successful applicant should hold a First Class or Upper 2A Honours, 
Postgraduate Diploma or Masters degree (or equivalent) and must have a 
basic understanding of molecular biology, plant pathology or 
microbiology, and, or the willingness, interest and ability to acquire 
these skills. They should also be an Australian Citizen or Permanent 
Resident.  For further information regarding the position please 
contact: Prof Giles Hardy, 08 9497 9385, email G.Hardy@murdoch.edu.au or 
Dr Philip O'Brien, 08 9360 2785, email: P.Obrien@murdoch.edu.au 
 
 
 
Applicants are requested to submit an application in writing together 
with their CV, a copy of their academic transcript and the names and 
contact details for two referees (including at least one university 
referee).  Please send applications to Dr P. O'Brien, School of 
Biological Sciences and Biotechnology, Murdoch University, Murdoch, WA 
6150  (: P.Obrien@murdoch.edu.au 

