An HFSP-funded postdoctoral position in The Sainsbury Laboratory to investigate 
molecular population genetics, host/pathogen interactions and evolution.

The Human Frontier Science Program has recently awarded a 3-year Program Grant 
to 
an international research team to investigate the molecular basis of pathogen 
recognition and its links with autoimmunity and speciation: 

    Reproductive isolation and autoimmunity in plants; Weigel, Dangl, Doebeli & 
Jones.

The Jones Group’s contribution will involve using advanced molecular population
genetics methods to identify oomycete pathogen effectors, their targets and the 
possible
roles of these targets as ‘guardees’ of host resistance genes. The project will 
involve
extensive interactions between the Weigel, Dangl, Doebeli and Jones 
laboratories. The
Jones Group benefits from access to a Solexa (Illumina) sequencing machine to 
facilitate the investigation of DNA sequence diversity of multiple races of 
pathogens and 
their hosts.

Applications to the Jones Group are particularly sought from individuals 
interested in
using and creating molecular population genetics methods to reveal genes that 
are 
under diversifying selection in filamentous plant pathogens.

This HFSP-funded 3-year fixed-term post, R&A-1A on the UEA scale, offers a 
salary in 
the range £26,666 - £33,799pa, the appointment level reflecting qualifications, 
skills and
knowledge.

To view the full 2007 list of HFSP awards, see 
       
       http://www.HFSP.org/PDF_Files/RG_Awardees_2007.pdf

The Sainsbury Laboratory is a world-leading research facility in plant and 
microbial
science and is generously supported by the Gatsby Charitable Foundation. Based 
on the
Norwich Research Park and closely linked to the University of East Anglia and 
the John
Innes Centre, the Lab hosts approximately 70 research scientists and support 
staff.
For more information, visit the Research pages of this website.

Applicants should provide a CV, including the names and contact details of two 
referees,
and a covering letter addressing the selection criteria. Please send formal 
applications,
quoting the reference number JJ10/2007JAC either by e-mail to HR@TSL.ac.uk or by 
post to Kim Blanchflower, HR Officer, The Sainsbury Laboratory, The John Innes 
Centre, Norwich, NR4 7UH, UK.

Closing date for applications is the 17th June 2007

