Position: Postdoctoral Fellow 
Position ID: PB-S095-771 

The Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation is seeking a postdoctoral fellow to 
work on a NASA-funded project that focuses on evaluating how microgravity 
impacts plant gene expression, root development, cytoskeletal organization 
and cell wall architecture in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. The 
project will also involve the evaluation of Arabidopsis mutants with 
defects in root development, cytoskeletal structure and gravitropism that 
were isolated based on previous spaceflight studies. Research will be 
conducted in the laboratory of Dr. Elison Blancaflor in the Plant Biology 
Division. The appointment will be initially for one year and funding for 
additional years (up to 3 years total possible) is dependent on progress 
and continued funding by NASA. 

A Ph.D. in plant biochemistry, plant molecular biology, cell biology, or 
genetics is required. The ideal candidate should demonstrate strong 
communication skills, be self-motivated, and have the ability to work 
independently. 

The Noble Foundation is a private, non-profit organization focused on the 
improvement of agriculture with state-of-the-art research, greenhouse, 
laboratory, and office facilities. The Foundation offers competitive 
salaries commensurate with experience and excellent benefits. Questions or 
requests for more information can be directed to Dr. Elison Blancaflor at 
eblancaflor@noble.org. 

Application Instructions: Applicants are requested to apply online by 
completing the application and submitting a C.V., contact information for 
three references (excluding relatives), and a cover letter explaining 
interest in the position and career goals. If applicant does not have the 
ability to upload the additional documents they can be faxed to (580) 
224-6240 (please include position number), but the application should be 
completed and submitted online. Applications will be accepted until a 
candidate is hired. Interested applicants should apply immediately. 

**************************** 
The Noble Foundation is one of the 50 largest private foundations in the 
United States. It carries out agricultural consultation and education, 
plant biology research, and provides grants to qualifying nonprofit 
organizations. The Foundation's operations are funded from earnings on 
invested assets in excess of $900 million. 

The Noble Foundation offers a competitive salary, a full benefits package 
including medical and dental coverage, paid holidays and vacations, and a 
pleasant working environment with an international staff from 15 different 
countries. 

The Noble Foundation is located in Ardmore, Oklahoma, a community of 25,000 
people located 90 minutes north of Dallas, Texas, and 90 minutes south of 
Oklahoma City. Ardmore is located just south of the Arbuckle Mountains and 
is within a half-hour drive of three large lakes, two state parks, several 
waterfalls, five golf courses, and a national recreational area. 

The Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation, Inc. 
Human Resources Department 
Position Number: PB-S095-771 
2510 Sam Noble Parkway 
Ardmore, OK 73401 
E-mail: NFHR@noble.org 
Website: www.noble.org/ 