THE SAINSBURY LABORATORY

PhD STUDENTSHIP 

Genomic approaches to understanding how Arabidopsis downy mildew effector 
molecules promote disease
The Sainsbury Laboratory is a charitable company of 70 research scientists and 
support staff and a world leader in plant science.  We are based on the Norwich 
Research Park and closely linked to the Gatsby Charitable Foundation, University 
of 
East Anglia and the John Innes Centre.  For more information visit www.tsl.ac.uk
A PhD studentship position is available for a bright and energetic individual in 
the 
Jones lab (www.tsl.ac.uk/jj) from October 2007, to join a team that investigates 
Hyaloperonospora parasitica (Hp), the downy mildew pathogen of Arabidopsis. 

The Hp genome is 8x deep shotgun sequenced (http://phytophthora.vbi.vt.edu). 
Pathogens make effector proteins that suppress plant defence mechanisms; many Hp 
effectors are secreted proteins with a signal peptide and a so-called RxLR motif 
that 
promotes uptake into plant cells, and can be detected in the Hp genome by 
bioinformatics. We have developed a method to assay effectors by delivering them 
by 
“type 3 secretion” from the phytopathogenic bacterium Pseudomonas syringae, and 
to 
identify those that contribute to pathogen virulence, or that trigger resistance 
in diverse 
Arabidopsis accessions. 

We also have access to a Solexa sequencing machine to sequence different Hp 
races 
and identify effector genes that are subject to diversifying selection. 
                                     
(http://www.illumina.com/pagesnrn.ilmn?ID=222) 

We will use the Solexa method to establish which genes are expressed by the 
pathogen in plants. Finally, an opportunity exists to establish methods to 
dissect which 
aspects of the defence response are the primary targets of individual effectors 
(see 
Jones and Dangl Nature (2006) 444:323-9). The project will provide excellent 
opportunities for individual creativity and initiative within this topic, and 
excellent 
training and experience in plant/microbe interactions, molecular biology and 
bioinformatics. The lab is part of a European team of researchers investigating 
Hp in 
the UK, Holland and Germany, and there will be considerable opportunities for 
interactions with these collaborating labs. 
Visit http://www.jic.ac.uk/students to download an application pack or send any 
informal 
enquiries, quoting the reference number below, to SL.Personnel@Sainsbury-
Laboratory.ac.uk 
Ref NUMBER JJ12/2007



Sainsbury Laboratory Vacancy File - 21/05/2007
