Position: Postdoctoral Fellow 
Position ID: PB-S095-373 

The Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation is seeking a postdoctoral fellow 
beginning in July or August, 2012 to work on a project that focuses on the 
interaction between the plant cytoskeleton and membrane trafficking in 
regulating root development. Research will be conducted in the laboratory 
of Dr. Elison Blancaflor in the Plant Biology Division. This position is 
for approximately three years. 

A Ph.D. in plant biochemistry, plant molecular biology, cell biology, or 
genetics is required. Experience with protein purification, biochemical 
characterization of enzymes, and protein-protein interaction (e.g. Y2H, 
pull down assays, co-immunoprecipitation) will be advantageous. Please see 
representative publications regarding our on-going root development and 
plant cell biology research (Plant Journal 69:1064, Plant Cell 23: 3610; 
Plant Physiology 155: 1237; 152: 1442; 147: 1659; New Phytologist 177: 
525). The ideal candidate should demonstrate strong communication skills, 
be self-motivated, and have the ability to work independently. 

The Noble Foundation is a private, non-profit organization focused on the 
improvement of agriculture with state-of-the-art research, greenhouse, 
laboratory, and office facilities. The Foundation offers competitive 
salaries commensurate with experience and excellent benefits. Questions or 
requests for more information can be directed to Dr. Elison Blancaflor at 
eblancaflor@noble.org. 

Application Instructions: Applicants are requested to apply online by 
completing the application and submitting a C.V., contact information for 
three references (excluding relatives), copy(s) of college transcripts, and 
a cover letter explaining interest in the position and career goals. If 
applicant does not have the ability to upload the additional documents they 
can be faxed to (580) 224-6240 (please include position number), but the 
application should be completed and submitted online. Applications will be 
accepted until a candidate is hired. Interested applicants should apply 
immediately. 