
Positions at Monsanto Biotechnology

For more information please contact:

Dr. Mary Fernandes 
 
Model Systems Lead 
 
Monsanto Biotechnology 
 
Chesterfield, MO 63017 
 
e-mail: mary.fernandes@monsanto.com 
 
 
 
MS position (microscopy)--# 8520 
 
MONS - 00008520 
 
Responsibilities: 
 
We are seeking a highly talented and experienced scientist with 
expertise in one or more of the following areas: Molecular Biology, 
Biochemistry, Cell Biology or Plant Biology/Development. The individual 
will be part of a larger multi-disciplinary effort aimed at developing 
methods for discovery and advancing the knowledge base around high 
priority leads in our crop pipeline.  Successful applicants will work in 
a team based environment, manage individual project(s) and interact 
cross functionally within the organization. 
 
Required Skills: 
 
Applicants should have a degree in Plant Biology, Molecular Biology, 
Cell Biology, Biochemistry, or other related field with five plus years 
of laboratory experience (BS candidates) or a minimum of 1-2 years of 
laboratory experience (MS candidates).  Proven expertise in molecular 
biology and/or cell biology is desired.  Specific expertise in working 
with proteins and/or nucleic acids is required.  Demonstrated skills in 
Cell Biology (eg. microscopy) or Plant Biology (eg. cell culture, 
transient systems, model systems, plant physiology) will be 
advantageous.   Familiarity with routine bioinformatics tools used in 
the above fields is desirable.  The successful candidate will be a 
highly motivated and results-oriented team player with excellent oral 
and written communication skills and project championship ability. 
 
 
 
PhD position Mol. Biologist - # 9321 
 
Ph.D position Mol. Biology/Cell Biology 
 
Responsibilities: 
 
We are seeking a highly talented and experienced scientist with 
expertise in Molecular Biology and/or Cell Biology to be part of a 
larger multi-disciplinary effort aimed at developing methods for 
discovery and advancing the knowledge base around high priority leads in 
our crop pipeline.  The individual will work in a team based environment 
while managing independent project(s) and interacting cross functionally 
within the organization. 
 
Required Skills: 
 
Successful candidates will have a PhD degree in Molecular Biology, Cell 
Biology or other related field with overall five plus years of 
laboratory experience.  A solid background in imaging technologies 
including fluorescence/confocal microscopy and/or molecular biology 
technologies such as cloning is required.  Preference will be given to 
candidates with strong computational/bioinformatics skills.  The ideal 
candidate will also have excellent oral and written communication 
skills, project leadership ability and be highly motivated and 
results-oriented.
