The Sainsbury Laboratory is a world-leading research facility in plant and 
microbial science and is generously supported by the Gatsby Charitable 
Foundation. Based on the Norwich Research Park and closely linked to the 
University of East Anglia and the John Innes Centre, the Lab hosts 
approximately 70 research scientists and support staff.

The Sainsbury Laboratory invites applications for a group leader position in 
plant and microbial sciences. The successful candidate will develop a 
research program in any area of biology that is relevant to the laboratory 
objective of making fundamental discoveries in the science of plant-microbe 
interactions, and that is complementary to the activities of the current group 
leaders. We encourage applications from scientists who seek to "cross over" 
to plants and plant-associated microbes, bringing with them new expertise 
and approaches to fundamental biological problems.

Currently, The Sainsbury Laboratory hosts five research groups funded by the 
Gatsby Charitable Foundation and linked with the University of East Anglia 
and the John Innes Centre.  The Group Leader position is a 100% research 
position with no formal teaching duties and with minimal administrative 
responsibilities.  Each group receives an allocation of ~£1.6M over six years 
in addition to an internationally competitive group leader salary and shared 
resources for large equipment.  Facilities are available for up to twelve 
scientists per group. The group leader will have access to in house state of 
the art bioinformatics, next generation sequencing, microscopy, plant 
transformation, and proteomics facilities.

We invite applications from scientists at any stage of their career in any of the 
following disciplines; biochemistry, cell biology, computational biology, 
epigenetics, biodiversity, evolutionary biology, genetics, genomics, 
microbiology, molecular biology, population biology, structural biology, and 
systems biology.  The appointment could be made at either junior or senior 
level and will be reviewed after five and seven years.  

Applications will be accepted until a suitable candidate is found. Informal 
enquiries should be directed to Sophien Kamoun 
(sophien.kamoun@tsl.ac.uk).  Please email formal applications with a CV, 
names of 3 referees and a 2 page statement of research interests to 
hr@tsl.ac.uk.

Ref HOL04/2007

