A Ph.D. student position is available starting immediately in the Department of Molecular Genetics, 
Utrecht University, The Netherlands. 


The applicant will be working at the department of Molecular Genetics (http://www.bio.uu.nl/mg/pd/), 
where research is carried out by an international and very enthusiastic team of 32 members. The team 
has a very stimulating and interacting environment.
The model system Arabidopsis is used to study developmental processes such as: pattern formation, 
cell division polarity and cell differentiation. This project involves the analysis of transcription factors 
involved in asymmetric cell division and stem cell maintenance.

Job description:

The prospective PhD-student will work 4 years within the VIDI project ”transcription factor movement 
and tissue patterning in Arabidopsis”

Using multidisciplinary approaches the applicant will unravel the connection between transcription 
factor movement, stem cell maintenance and asymmetric cell division.


Requirements:


We seek an enthusiastic and highly motivated scientist with good communicative skills in written and 
spoken English. He or she will be embedded in a cultural rich environment and should be capable of 
working independently as well as in a team.
The position requires a Master degree (or equivalent) in genetics, molecular biology, cell biology, or 
biochemistry. 

Conditions of employment:



The candidate is offered a full-time position for 4 years. The gross salary is in the range between € 
2.042 and maximum € 2.612 per month.
The salary is supplemented with a holiday bonus of 8% and an end-of-year bonus of 6,4% per year. In 
addition we offer: a pension scheme, a partially paid parental leave, flexible employment conditions in 
which you may trade salary for vacation days or vice versa. Conditions are based on the Collective 
Employment Agreement of the Dutch Universities. The research group will provide the candidate with 
necessary support on all aspects of the project. 



Interested candidates should send a resume highlighting their experience and interests (including a 
letter of motivation, curriculum vitae and contact details of at least two references) to i.blilou@uu.nl. 
As part of the selection procedure, the candidate is expected to give an outline of his/her research 
plans in a written report and/or an oral presentation.


