-- PhD student Systems Biology of Yield -- 
 
Job description: 
For our group, we are looking for enthusiastic PhD students in bioinformatics/systems biology. 
You will be involved in a project which is highly complementary to ongoing research in the group, 
where microarray, proteomics and interaction data related to growth control is generated. You will 
be responsible for the application and development of computational methods to analyze and 
integrate these data. You will collaborate with both experimental and computational biologists to 
obtain a systems-level understanding of leaf growth (http://www.psb.ugent.be/groups/systems-
biology-of-yield-group). 
. 
 
Profile: 
• You have a degree in Bioinformatics, Informatics or in Biotechnology/ 
Biochemistry/Bioengineering. 
• You have a good knowledge/experience in programming (Perl, R, Java and/or C++). 
• You have knowledge or experience with databases (mySQL). 
• You have an interest in web design (PHP). 
• You speak English fluently. 
• You have good communication skills. You are a team player. You are independent and like to 
take initiative. You are flexible. 
 
 
We offer a contract of 2 years, within University Gent, with the possibility of prolongation. 
We offer a diverse job in a young team, an open and informal work atmosphere and in modern 
facilities. The Department of Plant Systems Biology, VIB, University Gent (www.psb.ugent.be) is 
an internationally renowned and dynamic research institute that employs molecular genetics, 
genomics and bioinformatics to unravel developmental processes in plants and is led by Prof. 
Dirk Inzé. 
 
Start date: as soon as possible, the position remains vacant until a suitable candidate is found. 
 
Information: Further information can be obtained by contacting Stefanie De Bodt 
(stefanie.debodt@psb.vib-ugent.be) 
Application: Send your letter of motivation, your CV and if possible references to: 
Stefanie De Bodt 
Department of Plant Systems Biology 
Technologiepark 927 
9052 Gent 
Tel: +32 93313806 
 
or through email to stefanie.debodt@psb.vib-ugent.be 

