POST-DOCTORAL POSITION 
IJPB, Versailles, France 
 
Recent results obtained in our group on the characterization of the TON1, FASS/TON2 
proteins and their partners uncovered converging evidences pointing towards 
evolutionary conservation of some centrosomal components at the plant cell's cortex. 
TON1 and FASS themselves are related to proteins recently shown to localize at the 
centrosome in animal cells. TON1 interacts with centrin, a key component of eucaryotic 
MTOCs. Moreover, several TON1 and FASS interactants belong to a new family of 
cytoskeleton-associated proteins called TIM which are reminiscent of some animal 
centrosomal proteins. These are the first indications ever for a functional and 
evolutionary link between animal centrosomes and the cortical cytoskeleton of plants, 
apart from gamma-tubulin dependent nucleation. Through a collaboration between our 
group and the group of Marilyn Vantard the successful candidate will work on the 
functional characterization of TON1 and TIM proteins in plant cells, and of their other 
interacting partners in the cell from a cytological, molecular genetics and biochemical 
point of view. 
 
The position is available for candidates with outstanding academic record and excellent 
experimental and communication skills. It is located in Versailles (France) for 30 months, 
starting January 2009. Part of the work will be done in Grenoble, in Marilyn Vantard's 
group. Salary is 2200-2500 euros per month. 
 
Requirements : Candidates must have a PhD with an excellent academic record. We are 
seeking individuals with a strong background in genetics, molecular biology, 
biochemistry and microscopy. Experience in protein biochemistry and/or with fluorescent 
protein detection and confocal laser scanning microscopy is a plus. Experience in plant 
biology and knowledge of the French language are not mandatory. 
 
Application : Please send cover letter, CV, publication reprints  and names and e-mail 
addresses of three references to David Bouchez (bouchez@versailles.inra.fr). The 
successful candidate will start in January 2009 or soon after. 
 
Relevant publications : 
       Azimzadeh et al (2008). Arabidopsis TONNEAU1 proteins are essential for 
preprophase band formation  and interact with centrin. Plant Cell, in press 
       Pastuglia & Bouchez (2007). Molecular encounters at microtubule ends in the plant 
cell cortex. Curr Op Plant Biol 10:1-7 
       Pastuglia et al (2006). Gamma-tubulin is essential for microtubule organization and 
development in Arabidopsis. Plant Cell 18 : 1412-1425 
       Camilleri et al (2002). The Arabidopsis TONNEAU2 gene encodes a putative novel 
PP2A regulatory subunit essential for the control of cortical cytoskeleton. Plant Cell, 14 : 
833-845. 
 
The Jean-Pierre Bourgin Institute hosts 25 research groups devoted to plant biology, 
totalizing 330 people, comprised of 230 permanent staff and 100 post-docs, PhD students 
and others students. The IJPB has a long-standing and respected expertise in the field of 
plant biology, including genomics, genetics, breeding, metabolism, cell biology and 
development. All tools and resources relevant for integrative plant biology are available 
on site. Local facilities in Versailles include outstanding experimental facilities dedicated 
to plant culture (4500 m2 glasshouses and 500 m2 controlled environment rooms), state 
of the art technical platforms for Microscopy and Cytology (4 confocal microscopes, 
classical microscopy, etc), Protein Biochemistry (electrophoresis, chromatography, 
MALDI-TOF MS…), Chemistry (FT-IR, several mass spec including GC-TOF and LC-
MS/MS…), and Bioinformatics. 
 
Further details and information : bouchez@versailles.inra.fr
