1 Post-Doctoral position funded by the INRA for 2 years 
 
Epigenetic Natural Variation in Arabidopsis 
  
The complex mechanisms underlying epigenetic modifications and chromatin dynamic 
are now very widely studied, in particular in plant models such as Arabidopsis, but the 
significance of inherited epigenetic alterations in natural populations is still poorly 
understood. The lab of Olivier Loudet is currently developing an ambitious project funded for 
5 years by the European Research Council (ERC) and the French research funding agency 
(ANR) to pinpoint a significant number of QTLs to the gene level and identify causative 
polymorphisms and the molecular variation controlling natural diversity. The group of 
Nicolas Bouché is focusing on several aspect of epigenetic modifications and small RNAs 
regulated pathways in response to abiotic stress. 
    
We are looking for a highly motivated post-doctoral scientist with skills in genetics 
and molecular biology to develop a project focusing on a new epigenetic-based QTL, SG1. 
We believe that the SG1 protein is involved in the epigenetic control of certain loci and the 
goal is to determine precisely the function of SG1 and mode of action of the QTL. This 
project is opening the way to a new challenging topic emerging in the natural variation field 
that will undoubtedly lead to the discovery of more examples of epigenetic mechanisms 
imparting information that regulates gene expression across generations. 
        
The successful candidate should have a PhD degree in genetics / molecular biology. 
An experience with epigenetic marks and/or Arabidopsis is a plus. He/she will work in a 
stimulating environment (4 other post-docs are being recruited in the group; 2 technicians; 1 
engineer) in interaction with two young PI combining their expertises on Arabidopsis 
epigenetics and natural variation. A strong interest in epigenetics, quantitative/population 
genetics and working in a team is necessary. Fluency in English is essential with excellent 
oral and written communication skills. The position is available immediately for 2 years, with 
a net salary (depending on experience) of about 22-25,000 £ (= 33-38,000 $) per year (with 
social security coverage).  
          
Visit the lab websites to learn about our research projects and publications:  
http://www-ijpb.versailles.inra.fr/en/sgap/equipes/stress/index.htm 
http://www.inra.fr/vast/ 

Please send CV, names and contact information of references and a short statement of interest 
to both Nicolas Bouché (Nicolas.Bouche@versailles.inra.fr) and Olivier Loudet 
(Olivier.Loudet@versailles.inra.fr). We are also available by email to answer any additional 
questions. 
