1 Post-Doctoral position funded by the ANR for 30 months 

Epigenetic Natural Variation in Arabidopsis 

The complex mechanisms underlying epigenetic modifications and chromatin 
dynamic are now very widely studied, in particular in plant models such as 
Arabidopsis, but the significance of inherited epigenetic alterations in 
natural populations is still poorly understood. Our group is focusing on 
several aspect of epigenetic modifications and small RNAs regulated 
pathways in Arabidopsis. We are looking for a highly motivated 
post-doctoral scientist with skills in genetics and molecular biology to 
develop a project focusing on a new allelic incompatibility. For more 
details, please read our recent paper published in Current Biology (Rapid 
Establishment of Genetic Incompatibility through Natural Epigenetic 
Variation ; Durand et al, in press; abstract below). 

The successful candidate should have a PhD degree in genetics / molecular 
biology. An experience with epigenetic marks and/or Arabidopsis is a plus. 
He/she will work in a stimulating environment of PIs (N BOUCHE, Olivier 
LOUDET and Christine CAMILLERI) combining their expertises on Arabidopsis 
epigenetics and natural variation. A strong interest in epigenetics, 
quantitative/population genetics and working in a team is necessary. 
Fluency in English is essential with excellent oral and written 
communication skills. The position is available for 30 months, starting 
between March and June, with a net salary (depending on experience) of 
about 22-25,000 Û (= 33-38,000 $) per year (with social security coverage). 

Please send CV, names and contact information of references and a short 
statement of interest to Nicolas Bouche (Nicolas.Bouche@versailles.inra.fr). 
I am also available by email to answer any additional questions. 


Rapid Establishment of Genetic Incompatibility through Natural Epigenetic 
Variation 
Durand, Bouche, Perez, Loudet and Camilleri, Current Biology, in press. 
Abstract : 
Epigenetic variation is currently being investigated with the aim of 
deciphering its importance in both adaptation and evolution. In plants, 
epimutations can underlie heritable phenotypic diversity, and epigenetic 
mechanisms might contribute to reproductive barriers between or within 
species. The extent of epigenetic variation begins to be appreciated in 
Arabidopsis, but the origin of natural epialleles and their impact in the 
wild remain largely unknown. Here we show that a genetic incompatibility 
among Arabidopsis thaliana strains is related to the epigenetic control of 
a pair of duplicate genes involved in fitness: a transposition event 
results in a rearranged paralogous structure that causes DNA methylation 
and transcriptional silencing of the other copy. We further show that this 
natural, strain-specific epiallele is stable over numerous generations even 
after removal of the duplicated, rearranged gene copy through crosses. 
Finally, we provide evidence that the rearrang! 
 ed gene copy triggers de novo DNA methylation and silencing of the 
unlinked native gene by RNA-directed DNA methylation. Our findings suggest 
an important role of naturally occurring epialleles originating from 
structural variation in rapidly establishing genetic incompatibilities 
following gene duplication events. 
