Project description 
A Ph.D. position is available starting early in 2009 at Plant Research International - 
Wageningen University and Research Centre to study the molecular regulation of somatic 
embryogenesis induction in the model plant arabidopsis. The preferred clonal 
propagation tool for many crops is somatic embryogenesis, in which vegetative cells are 
induced to form embryos in vitro, usually after exposure to plant hormones. BABY 
BOOM (BBM) is an AP2/ERF domain transcription factor that is able to induce somatic 
embryogenesis in the absence of exogenous hormone application. The project makes use 
of state-of-the art genomics techniques to identify the molecular factors that make a cell 
competent to respond to BBM and form somatic embryos. The PhD student will be 
assisted for the duration of the project by a part-time technician. 
 
Requirements 
The candidate should possess an M.Sc. or equivalent in (plant) molecular biology, with 
an interest in developmental biology. Experience in protein biochemistry is a plus. 
Proficiency in English (both spoken and written) is required. 
 
Employment conditions 
The gross salary per month is €2,000 in the first year increasing to €2,558 in the fourth 
year. 
The initial contract is for 18 months and will be extended for an additional 30 months 
pending a positive performance evaluation. 
 
Information 
Additional information about the vacancy can be obtained from Dr. Kim Boutilier, tel: 
+31 317 480982, E-mail: kim.boutilier@wur.nl. 
 
Application 
Send your application before December 15th, 2008 to Mrs. Lydia Bikker, Wageningen 
UR Plant Sciences Group, Personnel & Organization Department, P.O. Box 16, 6700 AA 
Wageningen, The Netherlands. E-mail: vacaturemeldingen.psg@wur.nl. 
Applications may be submitted electronically (MS Word or PDF) or as hard copy 
versions. The application should comprise a cover letter indicating your suitability for 
this position, your curriculum vitae and two letters of reference. 
Please mention vacancy number 08.biosc.08 in your cover letter. 
 
Organisation 
Wageningen University and Research Centre (Wageningen UR) is an internationally 
renowned institute in the fields of life sciences and sustainability. Wageningen Plant 
Sciences Group (PSG) is a Wageningen UR consortium, bringing together the expertise 
of Wageningen University and the research institutes Plant Research International (PRI) 
and PPO (Applied Plant Research).
