Postdoctoral position at INRA, Angers, FRANCE 

*Characterization of the regulatory networks governing desiccation tolerance
and longevity during seed maturation.*

The ability of a seed to germinate rapidly and uniformly under different
environmental conditions is an important agronomical trait, ensuring
homogenous seedling establishment needed for optimal crop production. A key
factor that contributes to physiological quality is the capacity of seeds to
tolerate desiccation and to remain alive for extended periods of time in the
dry state (i.e. longevity), traits that are acquired during the maturation
phase, at the end of seed filling. Changes in environmental conditions
during maturation affect seed longevity and cause considerable loss to the
seed industry. Information on the molecular processes underlying the
acquisition of longevity during maturation and the influence of
environmental factors on this acquisition will provide tools to monitor and
predict physiological seed quality before harvest, an issue that is
particularly important in the context of climate change.

The project proposes a large-scale acquisition and integration of data using
a number of previously developed physiological models related to the
acquisition and loss of desiccation tolerance and longevity in seeds of
Medicago truncatula, one of the genetic and genomic model species for
legumes. Transcriptomic datasets will be generated using a new and
comprehensive array designed in this project, together with the acquisition
of metabolite profiles. Using this information, the postdoctoral fellow will
create underlying regulatory networks to highlight putative key hubs
involved in the regulation of seed survival in the dry state. The network
will be validated through functional analysis of insertion or TILLING
mutants of M. truncatula. Generated datasets will also serve as a basis for
the identification of "molecular signatures" in relation to the complex
traits related to desiccation tolerance and longevity, which can be further
developed into diagnostic and predictive tools.

The candidate will hold a Ph.D. in molecular biology with proven record in
bioinformatics and systems biology. Conversely, she/he will hold a Ph.D. in
bioinformatics with technical competences in molecular biology and
functional genomics. Knowledge of plant or seed biology is an asset. French
citizens are not eligible.

Duration: *24 months, starting October 2011.*
Location: UMR 1191 Molecular Seed Physiology, Angers, France

Applicants should provide a letter of interest, a complete CV, and three
reference letters.

The requested information should be send to *Dr. Julia Buitink (
julia.buitink@angers.inra.fr)*, UMR Molecular Seed Physiology, 16 Bd
Lavoisier, 49045 Angers, France. (tel +33 241 22 55 44). 
