- Dynamics and spatial organization of vesicle trafficking and secretion in 
plant cell morphogenesis -* 
 
*The University of Montreal is among the top 100 universities worldwide. A 
section of the Department of biological sciences is located in the Montreal 
Botanical Garden at the Plant Biology Research Institute (Institut de 
recherche en biologie végétale, IRBV). The Laboratory of plant cell biology 
and cytomechanics is interested in the architecture and mechanics of plant 
cell structure and the dynamics of plant cell morphogenesis. We use 
microscopy, micro-manipulation and mechanical modeling to understand plant 
cell functioning and the mechanics of cellular growth processes. 
 
Plant cell morphogenesis requires the targeted transport of cell wall 
polymers and secreted proteins to precisly defined regions on the cell 
surface. In growing pollen tubes, this involves highly efficient vesicle 
trafficking to the extreme, growing end of the cell which elongates at rates 
of several micrometers per minute. In the present project, the subcellular 
localization of proteins involved in the targeting of these secretory 
vesicles will be studied using transformation with GFP (green fluorescent 
protein). This project is financed by the Human Frontier Science Program. 
The following article reports recent data related to the present project: 
Bove J, Vaillancourt B, Kroeger J, Hepler PK, Wiseman PW, Geitmann A (2008) 
Magnitude and direction of vesicle dynamics in growing pollen tubes using 
spatiotemporal image correlation spectroscopy and fluorescence recovery 
after photobleaching. Plant Physiology, 
www.plantphysiol.org/cgi/doi/10.1104/pp.108.120212 
Other publications from the Geitmann lab can be found at the web site 
indicated below. 
 
Requirements 
• PhD in plant molecular biology or related area, received within the last 
five years. 
• Excellent academic record. 
• Excellent communication skills. 
• Very strong background in plant molecular biology (vector construction, 
Arabidopsis genetics and transformation): The candidate must be able to 
completely independently plan, organize, and carry out the molecular biology 
aspects of the project as well as assist graduate students with these 
techniques. 
• Experience with fluorescent protein detection and confocal laser scanning 
microscopy. 
• Experience in transmission electron microscopy is an asset. 
• Knowledge of the French language is not mandatory but represents an asset. 
 
Application 
Please send a detailed CV containing academic transcripts, a brief outline 
of experience, a list of publications, and the names of three references to 
the e-mail address below. The successful candidate will start in September 
2008 or soon after. The initial contract will have a duration of one year. 
Extension may be possible depending on the availability of research funds. 
 
Contact 
Dr. Anja Geitmann 
Institut de recherche en biologie végétale 
Département de sciences biologiques, Université de Montréal 
4101, rue Sherbrooke est, Montréal, Québec H1X 2B2, Canada 
anja.geitmann@umontreal.ca; phone 514-872 8492 
www.irbv.umontreal.ca/geitmann.htm
