
[Biocurator] Scientific Curator position with Xenbase (Calgary, Canada)


A scientific curator position is available with Xenbase, at the University of Calgary.  Xenbase is a Xenopus model organism 
database that will soon be launching its first fully database-backed version including a gene catalog, genome browser, and gene 
expression data. This is an excellent opportunity to play a lead role in developing curation practices for a new model organism 
database.

The curator will acquire, analyze and index information about Xenopus genes, expression patterns and gene function from other 
databases, literature and direct submissions from laboratories.  Initial duties will focus on annotating gene entries in the 
gene catalog, providing quality control testing for data entered into the gene catalog via pipelines and annotating in situ gene expression data.  

The successful candidate will be Xenbase’s first curator.  As such, they will initiate development of curation methodology 
and standards for Xenbase.  They will also work with software developers to design curation interfaces and quality control 
processes for data pipelines. This curator will also participate in design of an anatomical ontology for Xenopus.

 A Ph.D. or M.Sc. degree in life sciences, experience in vertebrate development and knowledge of molecular biology is required. 
Prior biological curation experience is strongly preferred. Exposure to databases, HTML and/or HTML editors, XML, and 
bioinformatics will be considered an asset.  Strong written/verbal communications skills are a must. 

This position will start as soon as possible.  The project has stable long term funding from the NIH.

We are located in Calgary, Canada – a vibrant, multicultural city (population over 1,000,000) near the Rocky Mountains 
with fantastic recreational possibilities.

Send your resume and cover letter to bowes@ucalgary.ca.  Please reference “Xenbase Scientific Curator” in the subject line.

For further information please contact:

Dr. Peter Vize
Department of Biological Sciences
2500 University Drive N.W.
Calgary, Alberta, Canada
T2N 1N4
Phone:  (403) 220-8502
Fax:   (403) 289-9311
Email: pvize@ucalgary.ca







