Project description
The PhD position is offered in the group of Peter Bozhkov to identify new 
programmed cell death regulators in plants using transcriptomics, proteomics and 
protein interaction methods.  As a model system, you will use somatic embryos of 
Norway spruce where programmed cell death is a part of normal development and 
where cells at successive stages of developmental cell death can be mechanically 
separated from living cells. For functional studies of identified cell death 
regulators you will combine reverse genetics, biochemistry and microscopy. 

More information about research profile of Bozhkov’s group can be found at: 
http://www.slu.se/bozhkov/ and http://lcpu.se/?page_id=333 

Qualifications: We are looking for a highly motivated candidate with a higher 
university degree in molecular or cell biology (Master degree). Documented abilities 
to manage a laboratory research project and experience with standard molecular biology 
techniques are critically required. Documented hands on experience in one or more of 
the experimental areas, including transcriptomics, proteomics, protein-protein 
interaction, enzymology and microscopy will be considered as a significant asset. 
The applicant must be fluent in written as well as spoken English.

Research environment: The successful applicant will work at the Department of Plant 
Biology and Forest Genetics, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU). The 
department is located under umbrella of Uppsala BioCentre offering a creative and 
stimulating international environment with a very strong collaborative spirit. For 
more information visit the web pages at http://www.vbsg.slu.se and
http://www.slu.se/en/faculties/nl/about-the-faculty/cluster/uppsala-biocenter/

Form of employment: PhD student for 4 years of postgraduate studies. 

Starting date: September 1, 2012

Application procedure
The application should include: (i) cover letter expressing your interest and addressing 
above-described selection criteria, (ii) curriculum vitae, (iii) transcripts of records 
and (iv) names and addresses of two references. Your complete application should be sent 
to Peter.Bozhkov@slu.se no later than 9th of April, 2012. If you are shortlisted for this 
position you will be asked to submit formal application to the registrar of SLU.
