3 year Postdoctoral Research Position  at UC Davis

This NSF-sponsored project focuses on the cell-type specificity of DNA damage response in Arabidopsis.  
Plants exhibit a robust transcriptional response to ionizing radiation, governed by damage-sensing 
kinases (Culligan, Tissier, and Britt, Plant J, 2006).  Different cells within the plant exhibit very 
different responses to irradiation, and these responses require the damage-induced transcription factor, 
SOG1.  Recent advances in the purification of specific cell types from developmentally complex organisms 
(Deal and Henikoff, Developmental Cell, 2010) allow us to break down the transcriptional response 
according to cell type.  Thus plants provide us with a unique window into the developmental specificity 
of damage response in eukaryotes.  The Postdoc sought here will investigate both the mechanism and 
biological significance of the transcriptional response to DNA damage.

The candidate should be familiar with standard molecular techniques and have an interest in chromosome 
biology.  Previous experience with RNA-SEQ, expression analysis, and hormone response would be a definite 
plus.  This project will be performed at the Dept. of Plant Biology at the University of California, Davis, 
under the supervision of Dr. Anne Britt.  With over 100 plant-focused research groups and a strong program 
in chromosome biology in many model systems, UC Davis provides an excellent environment for the study of 
chromosome biology in plants.  Davis is a pleasant college town located in the northern Central Valley of 
California.  It is 20 minutes from the state capitol (Sacramento), and 1hr 20’ from San Francisco.

Applications should be submitted in electronic form, and should include a CV and three letters of reference.  
The candidate should be obtained his or her PhD within the last 3 years, and a strong record of publication 
will be the major criterion for screening applications.  Inquiries and applications should include the subject 
line “Postdoctoral Position” and should be sent to:

Dr. Anne Britt
abbritt@ucdavis.edu
1 530-752-0699
