Postdoctoral Opportunity in the Nusinow Laboratory at the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center. 

We are currently looking to fill an opening beginning March 1st, 2012 for a motivated and 
enthusiastic scientist to work on uncovering the molecular mechanisms by which the circadian 
clock interfaces with environmental signaling to regulate growth and development in plants. We 
combine genetic, biochemical, molecular, proteomic and genomic methods in the model plant 
Arabidopsis to gain deep understanding of the components that connect the circadian oscillator to 
specific output networks. Ideal candidates would be interested in circadian biology, plant 
physiology and development, possess a Ph.D. in either genetics, biochemistry, cell, developmental, 
plant or molecular biology. Candidates should also be familiar with the application of methods 
such as: real time quantitative PCR, chromatin immunoprecipitation, protein expression and 
purification, mass spectrometry, genetic analysis, bioluminescent reporters and non-invasive 
imaging, molecular biology techniques, and methods in plant physiology. Experience with plants is 
expected, but exceptional candidates with an interest in plants should also apply. 

The international and interdisciplinary research environment at the Danforth Center offers an 
excellent opportunity for career development. Salaries are competitive and commensurate with 
experience, and the Danforth Center offers an excellent benefits package including medical and 403B 
matching. The Danforth Center is currently ranked in the top ten of places to work in scientific 
research. 

Please send a current CV, list of at least three contacts for recommendation, and a cover letter 
that includes a statement of past research experience and future interests to: 


Ms. Billie Broeker 
Senior Human Resources Business Partner 
Ref: Nusinow Postdoc 
Donald Danforth Plant Science Center 
975 North Warson Road 
St. Louis, MO 63132 

Or by email to bcbroeker@danforthcenter.org with Nusinow Postdoc in the subject line. 



The Donald Danforth Plant Science Center is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer and 
encourages applications from underrepresented groups, including minorities, women, and people with 
disabilities. 