Assistant/Associate/Full Professor 

Sensor Technology for Plant Phenotype Characterization 



Washington State University- Sensor Technology for Plant Phenotype Characterization 

The College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences at Washington State University (WSU) is 
seeking to fill tenure-track position in sensor technology for plant phenotype characterization. The 
position, which can be either a 9-month or 12 month appointment, at any rank based on background and 
qualifications will have 90% Agricultural Research Center-10% Academic Programs division of 
responsibilities in an appropriate department. The successful candidate will develop a rigorous 
transdisciplinary research program using sensing technologies relevant to plant phenomics, plant 
breeding, and agricultural production and will actively advise and train graduate students and teach 
graduate level courses. The position is part of cluster hire initiative to improve the speed and accuracy 
of crop breeding programs by integrating genomic information with multiple measurements of whole plant 
performance. The candidate is expected to have expertise in deploying non-destructive sensing 
technologies to determine plant phenotypes that influence plant productivity and quality traits. 
Applicants must have a Ph.D. before date of hire in Agricultural or Electrical Engineering, Computer 
Science, Plant Physiology, Biophysics or other areas directly relevant to the job requirements and, if 
applying at the Associate or Professor rank, an academic record and experience sufficient to merit 
tenure. 



Preferred qualifications include an outstanding record of publishing in peer-reviewed journals; 
demonstrated ability to develop and implement new technologies, systems and methods relevant to sensing 
and determination of plant phenotypes; an outstanding record of research productivity and of success in 
obtaining extramural support; an interest in working with multi-disciplinary teams, including physical, 
biological, and social scientists and with agricultural and industry stakeholders; demonstrated knowledge 
of and ability to work effectively with individuals and groups of diverse cultures, backgrounds, and 
ideologies; knowledge of plant-based agricultural production/processing systems; outstanding written and 
verbal communication skills. 



Application screening will begin on September 5, 2012. To apply, visit http://www.wsujobs.com. Be 
prepared to submit a letter of application addressing the required and preferred qualifications for the 
position, a statement of your research interests as well as a statement of your vision for teaching, a 
current curriculum vita, and the names and contact information of four people willing to serve as 
references. As the process moves forward, copies of official graduate transcripts will also be required. 
For questions about the position, contact Dr. Qin Zhang, qinzhang@wsu.edu<mailto:qinzhang@wsu.edu>, 
509-786-9360. 
EEO/AA/ADA. 
