ASSISTANT PROFESSOR, plant molecular genetics

 

The Department of Microbiology, Molecular Biology and Biochemistry at the
University of Idaho seeks to fill an academic year Tenure Track position
beginning as early as Fall 2007.  The successful candidate must be capable
of establishing a nationally competitive research program in plant molecular
biology or plant genetics.  We are particularly interested in persons using
molecular and genetic techniques to study important basic plant biological
questions in the areas of disease resistance, improved nutritional quality
or bioenergy research.  Successful candidates for this position must
demonstrate the ability to communicate effectively and will be responsible
for teaching an annual one-semester lower division class in molecular
biology and biotechnology, and participate in a team taught upper
division/graduate course in his/her area of expertise to be taught in
alternate years.  Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Molecular Biology,
Biochemistry, Genetics or an appropriately related field and postdoctoral
experience with a strong publication record.  

 

Review of applications begins March 1, 2007 and continues until the position
is filled.  Priority will be given to applications received prior to March
1, 2007.

Applicants who are selected as final possible candidates must be able to
show proof of eligibility to be employed in the United States   

 

Candidates should complete the online application at
http://www.hr.uidaho.edu. Submit letter of application, curriculum vitae,
statement of current and long-term research interests and teaching
philosophy and copies of significant publications. In addition, we will need
three letters of reference from individuals addressing research potential,
teaching and communication skills.  Documents that cannot be submitted
online are to be sent to:

Plant Molecular Genetics Search Committee

Department of MMBB, University of Idaho

PO Box 443052, Life Science Bldg, Rm 142

Moscow, ID 83844-3052

 

More information about the department can be found at
http://www.ag.uidaho.edu/mmbb/

 
