 
*********** 
Postdoctoral Research Fellow - Department of Plant Sciences, North Dakota State 
University, Fargo, North Dakota. 
 
The postdoctoral position is available to participate in a collaborative project to identify 
gene expression patterns associated with the initiation and development of resistance to 
skinning injury (skin-set) in potato tuber. Gene expression profile data will be used in the 
characterization of periderm maturational processes and in determining gene/protein 
markers associated with the initiation and development of resistance to tuber skinning 
injury (skin-set). The postdoctoral fellow will determine the localization of expression of 
putative marker genes in tuber periderm tissues during periderm maturation and skin-set. 
The postdoctoral fellow will be responsible for preparing tissues, hybridizing associated 
nucleic acid materials and developing means to visualize and interpret the gene 
expression localization pattern(s). The tissue specificity of gene expression will be 
assessed, in part, using in situ localization techniques. The research position requires 
knowledge/experience in a range of protocols involving microscopy, molecular biology 
and plant biochemistry/physiology. The postdoctoral fellow must be capable of 
determining and conveying how the research results improve our understanding of 
periderm maturation and skin-set. The successful candidate must be highly motivated, be 
able to independently design and conduct experiments, and must have excellent oral and 
written communication skills in the English language. The researcher will be expected to 
analyze and interpret the data for publication and application to plant breeding. 
 
Funding for this project is for one year and no more than two years. Benefits include 
social security, TIAA CREF retirement, Blue Cross/Blue Shield health plan, and life and 
disability insurance.   
Minimum Qualifications:  An earned Ph.D. degree in plant physiology/molecular 
biology/biochemistry/ or a related subject, and possess prior experience and expertise in 
laboratory applications of molecular markers, and plant maturational processes.     
Preferred Qualifications:  Strong microscopy, molecular biology/biochemistry and plant 
physiology skills with experience in the application of in situ hybridization techniques. 
Associated data base searching and excellent communication skills are desirable.    Date 
Open:  08-13-2008    Screening Date:  09-15-2008  Required Applicant Documents: 
 Cover Letter, Curriculum Vitae 
Special Instructions to Applicants:  Please submit contact information for three 
professional references along with your application material.   Refer to NDSU 
Employment Website:  http://www.ndsu.edu/jobs 
Location:  Department of Plant Sciences, North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND 
Contact:  Dr. Asunta Thompson, Email:  asunta.thompson@ndsu.edu  
