POSITION TITLE:     Postdoctoral Research Fellow

DEPARTMENT:         Plant Sciences

CLOSING DATE:       12/30/07 or until filled

Salary:                     $34,000+ depending on qualifications

DESCRIPTION:          Research Associate/Postdoctoral Scientist in the 
Department of Plant Sciences, North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND. 

We are seeking a postdoctoral scientist to conduct genomics research related to 
perennial weediness traits in leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula). This is part of a 
large scale genomics project aimed at identifying genetic traits in perennial 
weeds associated with 1) dormancy regulation in underground adventitious buds 
and seeds, 2) invasiveness, and 3) flowering. This project will incorporate the 
use of the first high-density microarrays specifically developed for a perennial 
weed. The Postdoctoral Research Associate/Scientist should have educational and 
research experience in genomics, bioinformatics, plant genetics, molecular 
biology, and a documented publication record. The appointment is for one year 
with additional years depending on satisfactory job performance and funding. 
Salary for the position is $34,000 per year plus benefits. Benefits include 
social security, TIAA-CREF retirement, Blue Cross/Blue Shield health plan, and 
life and disability insurance.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:  The position requires a Ph.D. in plant biology, 
physiology, or genetics, or related discipline; working experience in genomics, 
bioinformatics, and molecular biology, excellent communication skills; ability 
to work independently and as a member of a team; ability to initiate and 
accomplish research goals including publication of results in respected 
scientific journals.

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:  Experience in genomics, bioinformatics, or plant 
molecular biology, including knowledge of real-time PCR analysis; some knowledge 
of weed biology would be helpful.

TO APPLY: For full consideration, individuals interested in applying should 
submit the following materials: 1) a letter of application discussing how the 
stated qualifications are met; 2) a detailed resume; 3) official academic 
transcripts from all institutions attended; and 4) names and addresses 
(including phone and email) of three current references from the most recent 
positions held by the applicant.  For consideration, a hardcopy of the 
application should be submitted to: Dr. Albert Schneiter, Department of Plant 
Sciences, North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND 58105.  For technical 
information, contact Dr. James V. Anderson, USDA-ARS, Biosciences Research 
Laboratory, 1605 Albrecht Blvd., Fargo, ND 58105-5674, 701-239-1263; Email: 
james.anderson@ars.usda.gov

For more information on the position refer to:

http://www.ndsu.edu/ndsu/jobs/non_broadbanded/index.shtml

Note: Incomplete files and email applications alone will not be considered.
  NDSU is an Equal Opportunity Institu 
