3 PhD positions available in Molecular Biology

There are 3 PhD positions available on the project entitled: “Signal 
transduction in cell separation processes in plants”. This is a FUGE (Functional 
Genomics) funded project that aims at understanding the molecular mechanisms and 
genetic interactions that regulate the process which ultimately leads to cell-
cell separation in plants.

Previous studies have shown that the cell separation process leading to floral 
organ abscission in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana is regulated by IDA 
(INFLORESCENCE DEFICIENT IN ABSCISSION), a small, plant specific peptide that is 
believed to act as an extracellular ligand involved in cell-cell signaling 
(Butenko et al., 2003; Stenvik et al., 2006). IDA is a member of a family of six 
genes in Arabidopsis, where the other IDA-LIKE (IDL) genes are thought to be 
involved in various cell separation processes essential for proper plant 
development. In this project we will study how the signalling transduction 
mechanism of IDA/IDL regulates cell separation. The main goals of the project 
are to identify the biological function of these peptides, their receptors and 
transport routes, and their signal cascades and effect on gene expression.

One PhD position is available at the Department of Molecular Biosciences, 
University of Oslo for a period of 3 years. The position is associated to the 
Genomics, Gene regulation and Gene function Program in Professor Reidunn Aalens 
group (http://www.imbv.uio.no/gen/groups/aalen/).
Two positions are available at the Department of Biology, Norwegian University 
of Science and Technology, Trondheim for a period of 4 years with 25% teaching 
duty. The positions are associated with the Cell and Molecular Biology Group led 
by Professor Atle M. Bones (http://boneslab.bio.ntnu.no/index.html).

The project is a close collaboration between Professor Aalen and Professor Bones 
and short term research visits in both Oslo and Trondheim are expected during 
the project period for all candidates.

The positions require a Master degree or similar within molecular biology, cell 
biology, biotechnology or biochemistry. Experience from work on Arabidopsis is 
an advantage, but not a requirement. The applicant must be qualified for the 
doctoral program within these disciplines. We will put emphasis on composing a 
research team with complementary skills, where competence in molecular biology 
is essential.

For a detailed description of the three positions please see: 
http://boneslab.bio.ntnu.no/open_positions.html

UiO application deadline: June 19
NTNU application deadline: June 22
Project start date: September 1st, 2007

Questions regarding the positions can be directed to Professor Reidunn B. Aalen 
(reidunn.aalen@imbv.uio.no) tlf. +47 22 85 72 97, Professor Atle M. Bones 
(atle.bones@bio.ntnu.no) tlf. +47 73 59 86 92 or Researcher Tore Brembu 
(tore.brembu@bio.ntnu.no) tlf. +47 73 59 62 22.

