Dear Colleagues: Please bring this postdoctoral opportunity to the attention of 
any graduate student you know who is searching for a position.  We are looking 
for one or two postdocs to work on the mechanism of  meiotic prophase and anther 
development in maize using molecular genetics, genomics and proteomics 
strategies as well advanced imaging techniques. The research is described in 
more detail below.
    Regards Zac Cande

Postdoctoral positions are available to work on maize meiosis and commitment to 
meiosis during anther development. The candidate should have some experience 
working on the molecular biology or cell biology of plants.

Please send cv and references to: zcande@berkeley.edu

Zac Cande
341 LSA
Department of Molecular and Cell Biology
University of California
Berkeley, CA 94720-3200

http://mcb.berkeley.edu/labs/cande//
Cande Lab Research Projects:
1. Meiosis and Anther development in maize

Meiosis cytogenetics: The superb cytology of the maize chromosome, its well 
developed genetic and genomic resources, the large meiotic mutant collection, 
and the ability to obtain large amounts of highly synchronized meiocytes make it 
an excellent organism for integrating cytological, molecular, genomics and 
proteomic approaches to answer key questions in meiosis. The ability to perform 
meiosis depends on a switch to the meiotic cell cycle, and the formation of 
unique leptotene chromosome architecture. We hypothesize that in maize this 
switch is mediated by the protein AMEIOTIC1 (AM1), and that the indicator of a 
successful switch is the formation of the leptotene chromosome. Secondly, 
changes in leptotene chromosome architecture regulate downstream meiotic 
processes. To test these hypotheses, we will elucidate the mechanism of AM1 
function using an allelic series to define functional domains, proteomics to 
identify interacting proteins, and reverse genetics to resolve the functions of 
interacting proteins. To identify genes that are regulated by AM1, we will use 
microarrays   using meiotic RNA from wild type and am1 mutants. To determine how 
leptotene chromosomes regulate downstream processes, we will analyze the 
architecture of the leptotene chromosome using ultra high resolution structured 
illumination (SI) light microscopy and relate structure to function. We will 
develop an integrated model of chromomere and axial element organization using 
SI and elucidate changes as chromosomes pair and synapse. We will use ChIP on 
tiling arrays to identify histone modifications and RAD21/REC8 binding  sites in 
a defined chromosome region. Mutants deficient in intragenic recombination or 
chromosome architecture will be used to determine how spatial constraints in 
chromomere architecture affect recombination. We will identify the defining 
features of the chromatin remodeling that occurs at the leptotene zygotene 
transition in wild type, and in am1-pra1 cells arrested at this stage, and 
determine whether small RNA metabolism is responsible for these changes.  
Finally, we are  cloning and characterizing mutations in genes that have been 
identified in forward genetic screens as essential for pairing and synapsis.
Cell Fate Acquisition in Pre-Meiotic Maize Anthers: this is a NSF Plant genomics 
collaborative proposal with Virginia Walbot,  Stanford University
-from the grant proposal:
    The regulation and required downstream functions resulting in cell fates in 
Angiosperms remain largely undefined.  In particular, the differentiation of 
meiotic cells is not well understood despite its central importance to plant 
breeding and reproduction.  To study how cells are fated to enter meiosis, the 
five cell types in anther locules will be analyzed.  The maize tassel is a very 
favorable organ for cell fate analysis, because sufficient carefully staged, 
synchronous anthers can be dissected and a collection of >350 male-sterile 
mutants already exists.  Mutants will be classified cytologically and in a qRT-
PCR survey using stage and cell-type markers.  Mutants defective in cell fate 
acquisition or maintenance will be subjected to transcriptome and proteomics 
profiling on anthers and dissected cell types.   Pilot RNA and protein profiling 
on staged msca1 (all anther cells switch fate), ms23 (no tapetum), and mac1 
(excess meiotic cells) demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed approach.  
Using reverse genetics, Mu knockout mutations in genes implicated as important 
in rice and Arabidopsis or from transcriptome or proteomics analysis in maize 
will be identified, and if male sterile, examined for cytological defects prior 
to meiosis to identify genes with non-redundant roles in pre-meiotic cell fate 
acquisition.  Discovery of a greatly enriched number of male sterile mutants 
among Mu-tagged, anther-expressed genes demonstrates the feasibility and 
potential power of this approach.  For important loci, directed Mu tagging will 
be conducted to clone and sequence key genes required in anther cell fate 
decisions.  Detailed genetic and molecular analysis will then help pinpoint the 
role of these key genes in setting cell fates prior to meiosis and for 
regulating the switch in the cell cycle from mitosis to meiosis.  Insights will 
be used to define the signals present late in anther development that specify 
cell fates.  Collectively these data will permit correlation of gene and protein 
expression with actual cellular processes such as entry into meiosis or 
acquisition of the tapetal cell fate, and will lead to testable hypotheses of 
meiotic cell fate acquisition.
Selected Publications:
Hamant, O., Golubovskaya, I., Meeley, R., Fiume, E., Timofejeva, L., Schleiffer, 
A., Nasmyth, K., and W. Z. Cande. 2005. A REC8 dependent plant Shugoshin is 
required for maintenance of centromeric cohesion during meiosis, and has no 
mitotic functions. Current Biology 15:948-954.
Chung-Ju R. W., Chen, ., C-C., Harper, L.,and W. Z.  Cande. 2006. Toward 
construction of an integrated cytogenetic map of maize chromosomes  by 
fluorescence in situ hybridization.  Plant Cell 18:529-544.
Hamant, O., Ma, H. and W. Z. Cande. 2006. Genetics of Meiotic Prophase I in 
Plants. Ann. Rev Plant Biology  57:267-302.
Golubovskaya, I. N., Hamant, O., Timofejeva, L., Wang, R.C. J. , Braun, D., 
Meeley, R., and Cande, W.Z. (2006) Alleles of AFD1 uncouple axial element 
elongation and bouquet formation from RAD51 distribution and homologous pairing. 
J. Cell Science, 119:3306-3315.
Li, J., Harper, L.C., Golubovskaya, I., C. Wang, R. Weber, D., Meeley, R.B., 
McElver, J., Bowen, B., Cande, W. Z. and P. S. Schnable. 2007.  Maize RAD51 is 
required for efficient chromosome pairing and proper chromosome segregation in 
meiosis and the repair of radiation-induced mitotic DSBs. Genetics in press

2. Other lab research projects:
Heterochromatin function in fission yeast: Fission yeast has only three 
chromosomes and their behavior during meiosis can be readily monitored using 
such tools as GFP-Swi6, a chromodomain protein that binds to telomeres and 
centromeres, and GFP-histone. We have developed a cytologically based screen to 
identify mutants defective in various aspects of meiosis including telomere 
clustering during meiotic prophase, and chromosome segregation during anaphase I 
and II. One mutant dot6/bqt2 is essential for telomere clustering during 
meiosis. Two mutants, dos1 and 2, are novel genes required for heterochromatin 
structure  and function and interact with the RNAi machinery. We have identified 
several proteins that interact with dos1 including a histone demethylase and a 
nuclear pore protein and we are studying their role in heterochromatin 
formation.

Evolution of the cytoskeleton, mitosis, meiosis in basal eukaryotes: To assess 
the molecular evolutionary conservation of spindle motors during eukaryotic 
evolution, we are studying mitosis in Giardia intestinalis, an intestinal 
parasite and diplomonad (with twonuclei/cell). Giardia is a member of the 
earliest diverging lineage of eukaryotes and thus provides a model to study the 
evolutionary history of cytoskeletal proteins and processes such as meiosis, 
mitosis, and cytokinesis. Giardia is easily grown in the laboratory, has a 
nearly sequenced genome; and is amenable to reverse genetic methodologies. It 
has a very complex microtubule cytoskeleton, with more more different classes of 
microtubule motors than plants, yeasts or metazoans, but its actin cytoskeleton 
is noncannonical (for example no myosins, arp2/3 etc). We have identified, 
cloned, and phylogenetically classified twenty-four kinesin like protein 
homologs (klps) from Giardia, roughly triple the number of klps as in yeasts. 
Many of these klps, although found in metazoans, are lacking in yeasts.  We are 
investigating their function in pathogenesis and mitosis. Novel kinesins may be 
prime targets for development of drugs for treating giardiasis. We have worked 
out a method of synchronizing cells and have described how mitosis works in 
cells that have two nuclei. We are studying microtubule, klp,  and chromosome 
behavior in living and fixed cells using state of the art light and electron 
microscopy and are studying phenotypes of dominant negative klp mutants strains. 
While investigating cytoskeletal behavior during encystment, we have shown that 
cyst nuclei undergo "automixis" (defined as the fusion of nuclei or cells 
derived from the same parent to yield homozygous offspring) and genes that have 
meiotic function are specifically expressed at this time.  In collaboration  
with the Joint Genomics Institute we are sequencing Spironucleus,  another 
diplomonad, and Naegleria, a Valkhamphid that is the deepest amoebid cell that 
can be grown in culture. It can also form basal bodies and axonemes de novo and 
we developing this organism as an experimental system to study basal body 
formation.
Selected publications:
Jin Y., Mancuso J., Uzawa, S., Cromnebold, D. and W. Z. Cande. 2005. The fission 
yeast homolog of human transcription factor EAP30 blocks meiotic Spindle Pole 
Body amplification. Developmental Cell 9:63-73.
Li, F., Goto, D., Zaratiegui,  M., Tang, X., Martienssen, R., and W. Z. Cande. 
2005. Two novel proteins, Dos1 and Dos2, interact with Rik1 to regulate 
heterochromatic RNA interference and histone modification. Current Biology 15:1-
10.
MacRae, I.J.,  Zhou, K., Li, F., Repic, A., Brooks, A.N., Cande, W.Z., Adams, P.  
and J. Doudna. 2006.  Structural basis for double-stranded RNA processing by 
dicer. Science 311:195-198.
Tang X, Jin Y, Cande WZ. 2006.  Bqt2p is Essential for Initiating Telomere 
Clustering upon Pheromone Sensing in Fission Yeast. J. Cell Biol. 173:845-5.
Sagolla, M.S., Dawson, S.C., Mancuso, J.J. and W. Zacheus Cande. 2006. Three 
dimensional analysis of mitosis and cytokinesis in the binucleate parasite 
Giardia intestinalis. J. Cell Sci. 119:4889-4900.



