A post doc position in plant developmental biology is available at Uppsala 
university, Sweden 

A post doc position is available at the Department of Organismal Biology, 
Physiological Botany. 
Application no later than 2012-08-27. UFV-PA 2012/1940 

The sub-department Physiological Botany is located at Uppsala BioCenter and 
is part of the Linnean 
Center for Plant Biology (www.lcpu.se). The position is for 2 years. 

Starting date: As soon as possible or upon agreement. 

We seek a highly motivated individual to join us in our strive to elucidate 
the molecular mechanisms 
governing root vascular patterning and growth in Arabidopsis. 

Work tasks: You will be joining our group at a very exciting time when we 
see many openings in 
our on-going projects. In a collaborative effort we have recently 
identified an intricate cell-to-cell 
signalling involving the movement of a microRNA between cells. We have 
shown that this 
determines cell fate through the control of mRNA levels of class III HD-ZIP 
transcription factors 
(Carlsbecker et al, Nature, 2010). We are now exploring the up-and 
downstream regulatory pathways 
and you will take part in both on-going projects and initiate a genetic 
screen for novel pathway 
components. 
Qualifications: To be eligible for the position, the applicant must have a 
PhD degree or equivalent, 
in plant molecular biology, plant physiology, developmental biology or 
related fields. The applicants 
PhD degree must have been obtained no more than three years prior to the 
application date. The PhD 
can be older than three years if there are special circumstances. Such 
special circumstances can be 
periods of sick leave, parental leave etc, which are deducted from the 
three-year period. 
Applicants must be highly motivated and have demonstrable ability to 
produce work of excellent 
quality and international impact. Applicants must have good communication 
skills in English and be 
able to write clearly and succinctly. The applicant must have good and 
proven knowledge in genetics 
and molecular biology. It is desirable that the applicant has been working 
with Arabidopsis. Large 
emphasis is put on the applicant's personal abilities, including ability to 
collaborate and take own 
initiatives. 
Salary is according to competence. 
How to apply: The application should contain your CV, publication list, PhD 
diploma, copy of the 
PhD thesis, a short description (2-4 pages) of previous research, current 
research interests and other 
activities of relevance for the position, along with telephone numbers and 
e-mail addresses of at least 
two reference persons. All application documents should be written in 
English. 
More information about the position can be obtained from assistant 
professor Annelie Carlsbecker, 
annelie.carlsbecker@ebc.uu.se, tel. +46 18 673 375 or +46 70 537 1397. 
Union representatives are 
Anders Grundström, Saco-rådet, tel. +46 18 471 5380, Carin Söderhäll, 
TCO/ST, tel. +46 18 471 
1996, Stefan Djurström, Seko, tel. +46 18 471 3315. 

You are welcome to submit your application no later than 27th of August, 
2012, UFV-PA 
2011/3102. Please, use the link below to access the application form. 
Postdoctoral position in Plant Developmental Biology 