Our group is looking for applications from a highly motivated postdoc 
to work on epigenetic gene silencing in Arabidopsis and sugarcane. The 
successful applicant will join a new research group working in the 
characterization of novel genes involved in developmental gene 
silencing. We are using forward and reverse genetics, molecular 
biology and biochemical approaches to investigate the role of these 
genes in developmental process as well as during the responses to 
abiotic stresses. We seek enthusiastic and highly motivated candidates 
with excellent and proven skills in plant genetics, molecular biology, 
and biochemistry. Additional experience in affinity purification, Y2H 
and chromatin analysis in plants is desirable. 
The lab is located in the Department of Biochemistry of the Institute 
of Chemistry at the University of Sao Paulo-Brazil. English is spoken 
by most of the staff in the Institute, but some basic level of 
Portuguese may be required for outside of work-living situations. The 
Institute of Chemistry is composed of the Biochemistry and the 
Chemistry departments. The Biochemistry department has 43 professors 
with interests in different aspects of cellular, molecular and 
structural biology applied to various systems, such as cancer, 
neuroscience, parasitology and microbiology, plant biology, biofuels, 
oxidative stress and mitochondria, DNA repair and peptide synthesis. 
The multidisciplinary nature of our research community creates an 
outstanding environment for scientific discussion. In 2011, the 
professors in the Biochemistry program had a median h-index of 21 and 
had published in average 3.2 articles that year with a total of 6,093 
citations (156 per PI). 
Funding for the project is available for four years, but under the 
Brazilian system the salary for postdocs comes from the funding 
agencies and the selected candidate will have to apply for a 
fellowship to the Sao Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP). FAPESP 
Post-Doctoral Scholarship is aimed at researchers with a recent 
doctorate degree and a successful research track record. Applications 
for the Postdoctoral fellowships could be done in English and are 
received any time of the year. More information at 
http://www.fapesp.br/en/postdoc. 
Prospective applicants should send (email to: acasasmollano@gmail.com) 
a cover letter outlining your research interest and motivations, 
including; (a) your CV with a list publications and experimental 
skills and (b) contact details and e-mail addresses for 3 referees to: 

Juan Armando Casas Mollano 
FAPESP Young Investigator 
Departamento de Bioqu’mica 
Instituto de Qu’mica 
Universidade de Sao Paulo 
Av. Prof. Lineu Prestes, 748 sala 954 
CEP 05508-000 Sao Paulo, SP 
Brasil 

Email: acasasmollano@gmail.com 
http://www.iq.usp.br/jovem_pesquisador/acasasmollano 