Three postdoc positions are available in Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Nanjing, China. 
Position 1: Plant Comparative Genomics/Bioinformatics 
The successful candidate will focus on comparative genomics and genome evolution in plants and be 
expected to contribute to a variety of studies on plant structural, functional and evolutionary 
genomics in the lab. For more information, please see our recent publications (Du et al, The 
Plant Journal 2010; Du et al, The Plant Cell 2010; Du et al, The Plant Cell 2012, in press). 
Applicants should have a PhD degree in genetics/genomics, bioinformatics/computational biology, 
molecular evolution, or related disciplines. Familiarity with Unix/Linux environment and 
programming (e.g., PERL and R), and previous experience with next generation re-sequencing data 
analyses is highly desirable. The candidates with strong publication records are encouraged to 
apply. Salary is commensurate with experience and qualifications. The position is available 
immediately. Please email your cover letter, curriculum vitae, and names and addresses of three 
references to: 
 Dr. Jianchang Du 
 Institute of Industrial Crops
 Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences
 50 Zhongling Street, Nanjing 210014 
 ChinaEmail: changzi75@hotmail.com 
 
Position 2: Maize nitrogen-use efficiency 
The lab is seeking a Postdoctoral Research Associate to manage a joint project on maize 
nitrogen-use efficiency (NUE) with Nottingham University in U.K. The candidate will be using 
genomic approaches (microarrays, RNA-seq etc.) in combination with high-throughput phenotyping 
data to identify candidate genes regulating NUE. All the researches will be conducted at Sutton 
Bonington Campus of Nottingham University. 
  
The successful candidate will have experience and knowledge in plant breeding, genetics and 
bioinformatics. Knowledge of statistics, experimental design, and quantitative genetics is 
strongly desired. Funding is ensured for two years. A start date before June 1, 2012 is preferred. 

Send a cover letter, CV, and a list of at least three references to: 
 Dr. Han Zhao 
 Professor of Biology and Biotechnology 
 Institute of Biotechnology Jiangsu 
 Academy of Agricultural Sciences 
 50 Zhongling Street, Nanjing 210014
 ChinaEmail: zhaohan@jaas.ac.cn 
  
Position 3: Plant Bioactive Substances to Improve Biomass and Oil Yields 
Chemical regulators offer a unique strategy to achieve higher yields of biomass and oil production. 
The successful candidate will fit into a team and focus on essential issues of the strategy, from 
the screening and identification of bioactive factors to the dissection of molecular mechanisms of 
action and their applications to agriculture and bioenergy industry, by using microalgae and/or 
Arabidopsis as experimental systems. Applicants should have a recent Ph.D. degree in plant biology, 
cell biology, biochemistry and molecular biology, organic synthesis or fermentation engineering. 
Previous experience in high throughput screening, chemical genetics, or fermentation engineering 
are highly desirable. Previous publications in SCI journals are required. Salary is commensurate 
with experience and qualifications. The position is available immediately. For more information of 
the Chen laboratory, please see our recent publications (Chen and Wu, In Biofuels: Alternative 
Feedstocks and Conversion Processes(ed. by A Pandey, an invited book chapter), Elsevier 2011; 
Yan et al., Bioresource Technol 102: 6487-6493, 2011; Li et al., Bioresource Technol. 102:5138-44, 
2011; Chen et al., PLoS ONE 5(1): e8640, 2010; Chen et al., J Biol Chem 282: 24752-24758, 2007;
Chen et al., Ann Bot (Lond), 95:901-915, 2005). The application due is March 1, 2012 or until the 
position is filled. Please email your cover letter, curriculum vitae, and contact information of 
three references to:
Dr. Yi-Feng Chen
Professor of Biology and Biotechnology
Institute of Biotechnology 
Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences
50 Zhongling Street, Nanjing 210014, 
ChinaEmail: yifchen@hotmail.com 