Tenure Track Faculty Positions in Plant Biochemistry
Agricultural Biotechnology Research Center 
Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Applications are invited for tenure-track research fellow positions at the Assistant 
or Associate level (equivalent of assistant/associate professor).  The successful 
candidates will be expected to develop a rigorous research program in the field of 
plant biochemistry.  Areas of interest include but are not limited to: secondary 
metabolism, enzymology, cell wall biosynthesis and degradation, and metabolic 
engineering or metabolic changes in response to disease or environmental 
stresses in crop or medicinal plants.
The ABRC will be in a major expansion and is developing an integrated research 
program in enzyme biotechnology.  Several new faculty hires are anticipated 
over the next several years, and a new research building equipped with state-of-
the-art facilities will be opened in December 2008.  For more information of 
ABRC and Academia Sinica, please visit our websites at 
http://abrc.sinica.edu.tw/ and http://www.sinica.edu.tw/main_e.shtml, 
respectively.
Qualifications: Ph.D. in Plant Biochemistry or related field, postdoctoral 
experience and knowledge skills in plant metabolism.  We are particularly 
interested in applicants who are seeking a highly collaborative research 
environment.  Applicants should submit the following materials online, at 
http://abrc.sinica.edu.tw/jobs/  (a) Cover letter; (b) Curriculum vitae, including 
publications; (c) A summary of research accomplishments; (d) Clearly focused 
description of future research plans; (e) PDF copies of major publications; (f) 
Names and contact information for three referees.  Candidates should arrange 
three letters of recommendation to be submitted by e-mail to: 
abrc@gate.sinica.edu.tw or sent by regular mail to:  
Faculty Search Committee, Agricultural Biotechnology Research Center, 
Academia Sinica, No. 128, Academia Rd. Sec. 2, Nankang, Taipei 11529, 
Taiwan, ROC.  Review of candidates will begin on March 1 and continue until the 
positions are filled. 

