PH.D. GRADUATE FELLOWSHIPS, University of Florida

The Interdisciplinary Plant Molecular and Cellular Biology (PMCB) Graduate 
program invites applications from motivated, highly qualified candidates 
interested in pursuing graduate studies in biochemistry and biophysics of plant 
metabolism, genetics of plant-microbial interactions, functional genomics and 
biotechnological improvement of crops for biomass production, scent and taste 
improvement, disease and stress resistance. The course of study may include 1) 
peer-reviewed courses in integrative genomics, metabolomics, bioinformatics, 
biochemistry and problem solving; 2) six-day summer workshops on research 
ethics, problem solving, genomics and bioinformatics, metabolism. Within the 
first year of enrollment and prior to finalizing their Ph.D. research project, 
all Fellows will be encouraged to complete four-week research rotations in three 
of the 39 participating research groups. More information on the PMCB Program at 
the University of Florida, PMCB faculty, and their research programs is at 
http://pmcb.ifas.ufl.edu

Application Requirements: United States citizenship or U.S. Permanent Residence 
status is required to be eligible for some fellowships. Apply on-line at 
http://pmcb.ifas.ufl.edu/apply.htm
For additional information, please contact Dr. Gary Peter (gfpeter@ufl.edu) or 
Dr. Maria Gallo (mgm@ufl.edu).
Application deadline: January 11, 2008

Background Information: The University of Florida is located in Gainesville, a 
city of 110,000 residents in north-central Florida within driving distance to 
major metropolitan areas. It is the state’s Land Grant and Sea Grant 
institution, with a student population of 49,000. A member of the prestigious 
American Association of Universities, UF conducts research, instruction, and 
extension outreach programs on the campus and throughout the state. UF/IFAS is a 
federal, state, and local government partnership dedicated to develop knowledge 
in agriculture, human and natural resources, and the life sciences and to make 
that knowledge accessible to sustain and enhance the quality of human life. 
While extending into every community of the state, UF/IFAS has developed an 
international reputation for its accomplishments in teaching, research and 
extension.

The University of Florida is an equal opportunity, equal access, affirmative 
action employer. The “government in the sunshine” laws of Florida require that 
all documents relating to the search process, including letters of 
application/nomination and reference (except transcripts) be available for 
public inspection.



