

ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
PLANT MOLECULAR BIOLOGY

The Section of Molecular Cell and Developmental Biology at The University of Texas at Austin invites 
applications for a tenure track position in the general area of plant molecular biology. We are 
interested in applicants who use molecular and biochemical approaches to investigate fundamental 
problems in plant genetics, cell and developmental biology and will consider applications at the 
Assistant Professor level.  Areas of particular interest include but are not limited to pathway 
regulation, signal transduction, and RNA interference.  We seek an outstanding investigator who 
will build an active research program and who will teach effectively at the undergraduate and 
graduate levels.  The successful candidate will also be eligible for affiliation with the 
Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology, which provides state-of-the-art facilities and 
supports an excellent graduate program. The molecular biology community at UT Austin is in an 
exciting phase of growth with recent hires in cell biology, developmental biology, genomics and 
related areas.

Applications will be considered from December 1, 2006, until the position is filled. Applicants 
should send their curriculum vitae, statement of research and teaching interests, representative 
publications, as well as arrange for three letters of recommendation to be sent to:

Chairman, Plant Molecular Biology Search Committee
ATTN: Maureen Meko
Section of Molecular Cell and Developmental Biology
University of Texas at Austin
BIO 311, 205 W 24th St
Austin, TX 78712-0183

Home pages: http://www.biosci.utexas.edu/MCDB/ and http://www.icmb.utexas.edu/

Austin is located in the Texas hill country and is widely recognized as one of America's most 
beautiful and livable cities.

The University of Texas at Austin is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. Qualified 
women and minorities are encouraged to apply.
-------------------------------------------------


Z. Jeffrey Chen, Ph.D.
D. J. Sibley Centennial Professorship Fellow in Plant Molecular Genetics
The University of Texas at Austin
Molecular Cell and Developmental Biology
Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology (ICMB)
One University Station, A4800
Austin, TX 78712-0159

Office: 512-475-9327
Lab: 512-475-9335
Fax: 512-471-2149
http://polyploidy.biosci.utexas.edu

Express Mail Deliveries:
Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology
The University of Texas at Austin
2506 Speedway, NMS 3.122
Austin, TX 78712
USA

