ASSISTANT SCIENTIST & DIRECTOR,  PROTEOMICS DIVISION INTERDISCIPLINARY CENTER 
FOR BIOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH (ICBR)
University of Florida

The Interdisciplinary Center for Biotechnology Research (ICBR) at the University 
of Florida is seeking a dynamic individual for a 12-month non-tenure accruing 
faculty position as Assistant Scientist and Director of the ICBR Proteomics 
Division.

As Director of Proteomics, the incumbent will be charged with setting the vision 
and helping to acquire the resources to make the ICBR Proteomics Division among 
the best in the nation. Individual will be responsible for the day-to-day 
management of mass spectrometry, 2D electrophoresis, peptide synthesis, gel 
imaging and other services in the laboratory, management of staff,  interactions 
with faculty and staff wishing to do proteomics research, and will have a role 
in teaching proteomics research to students, staff and faculty through the ICBR 
education program. For detailed information about the Proteomics Division, see 
the ICBR website (http://www.biotech.ufl.edu/proteomics/).

Required qualifications are a Ph.D. in chemistry, biology or related field 
involving research with mass spectrometry and proteomics; experience with 
protein identification, quantitation (using isotope labeling and/or label free 
technology) and post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation-site 
mapping, and proficiency with separation techniques, including multiple 
dimensional chromatography. Experience with high-throughput facilities and 
bioinformatics-proteomics interfaces are highly desirable.

Salary: $55,000, negotiable based on experience.

To apply, submit a cover letter, curriculum vitae, and the names and contact 
information of three references in one electronic file to the email below.  
Review of applications will begin in December, 2007. Nominations of candidates 
are encouraged. Women and minorities are encouraged to apply.  Please forward 
all applications, nominations and inquiries to:
      Dr. Robert Ferl, ICBR Director
       University of Florida,    PO Box 103622
       Gainesville, FL 32610-3622
Phone    352.273.8030   Fax  352.273.8070
robferl@biotech.ufl.edu
      BACKGROUND INFORMATION:

The ICBR is a campus-wide center that provides state-of-the-art scientific 
expertise, training, instrumentation, and technologies to faculty, staff, 
graduate students, and other research partners throughout the university, state 
and nation (www.biotech.ufl.edu ). The ICBR Research Laboratories, including the 
Proteomics Laboratory, are staffed by ICBR personnel who are expert in each of 
the research laboratory technologies (genomics, proteomics, sequencing, gene 
expression, mass spectrometry, microarrays, hybridoma, flow cytometry, electron 
microscopy and bioimaging, molecular biomarkers, genetic analysis, and 
bioinformatics). The staff also advises and offers scientific and technical 
consultation for investigators, and is strongly committed to developing new 
advances in their technology areas and to passing this knowledge on to faculty 
users.

