Assistant Professor in Plant Molecular Biology 

The Section of Molecular Cell and Developmental Biology invites 
applications for a tenure-track Assistant Professor position. We seek an 
outstanding investigator who will build an active research program and who 
will teach effectively at undergraduate and graduate levels. We seek 
applications from individuals who use contemporary approaches to address 
fundamental questions in any area of plant biology, including but not 
limited to epigenetics, genetics, genomics, RNA biology, cell biology, and 
developmental biology. The successful applicant will be joining the biology 
community at UT-Austin during an exciting phase of growth, with recent 
hires in developmental biology, plant biology, systems biology, 
neurobiology, and related areas. Very generous start-up funds are 
available, and the successful candidate will be eligible for affiliation 
with the Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology, which provides 
state-of-the-art facilities and supports an excellent graduate program. The 
successful candidate will also be affiliated with the plant biology 
graduate program. 

Austin is located in the Texas hill country and is widely recognized as one 
of America's most beautiful and liveable cities. 

Please send a single PDF file containing a cover letter, CV, 2-4 page 
statement of current and future research directions and a 1 page teaching 
statement to: 

MCDB_plantbio@austin.utexas.edu<mailto:MCDB_plantbio@austin.utexas.edu> 

Please also request 3 letters of reference to be sent as PDF files directly 
to the e-mail address above. Completed applications received by November 1, 
2012 will receive first consideration, but applications will continue to be 
accepted until the position is filled. 

home pages: http://www.biosci.utexas.edu/MCDB/ ; 
http://www.icmb.utexas.edu/ andhttp:// 
www.biosci.utexas.edu/graduate/plantbio/ 

The University of Texas, Austin is an Equal Opportunity Employer that 
values diversity in its work force. Women and minorities are encouraged to 
apply; a background check will be conducted on applicant selected. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

Assistant/Associate Professor in Cell Biology 

The Section of Molecular Cell and Developmental Biology invites 
applications for a tenure-track or tenured Assistant/Associate Professor 
position. We seek an outstanding junior or mid-career investigator who will 
build an active research program in eukaryotic cell biology and who will 
teach effectively at the undergraduate and graduate levels. We are 
particularly interested in applicants who bridge, or build on, existing 
research strengths within the Section to address important questions in any 
area of cell biology. 

The successful applicant will be joining the biology community at UT-Austin 
during an exciting phase of growth, with recent hires in cell biology, 
developmental biology, plant biology, neuroscience, cancer biology, and 
related areas. Very generous start-up funds are available, and the 
successful candidate will also be eligible for affiliation with the 
Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology, which provides 
state-of-the-art facilities and supports an excellent graduate program. 

Austin is located in the Texas hill country and is widely recognized as one 
of America's most beautiful and livable cities. 

home pages: http://www.biosci.utexas.edu/MCDB/ ; 
http://www.icmb.utexas.edu/ 

The University of Texas, Austin is an Equal Opportunity Employer that 
values diversity in its work force. 

Women and minorities are encouraged to apply. A background check will be 
conducted on applicant selected. 

Applicant Instructions: 

Please send a single PDF file containing: 

Cover Letter, CV, 
A 2-3 page statement of current and future research directions, 
A one page teaching statement 

This information should be sent to: 

MCDB_cell_bio@austin.utexas.edu<mailto:MCDB_cell_bio@austin.utexas.edu> 

Please have 3 letters of reference sent as PDF files directly to the same 
email address. 

Applications received by November 1, 2012, will receive first 
consideration, but applications will continue to be accepted until the 
position is filled. 



Background check conducted on applicant selected. 
The University of Texas at Austin is an Affirmative Action/Equal 
Opportunity Employer. 