*Postdoctoral Positions in Plant Proteomics and Biochemistry*
A postdoctoral position is available starting this summer or autumn in Dr. Sixue Chen's laboratory at the Genetics Institute, 
University of Florida, USA. The overall goal of the research project is to characterize regulatory and metabolic pathway networks 
involving glucosinolate metablism utilizing multi-disciplinary functional genomics tools, including molecular biology, biochemistry, 
proteomics, bioinformatics and statistics. Detailed understanding of pathway interactions is essential for targeted engineering of 
plant secondary metabolites (http://www.botany.ufl.edu/Faculty/faculty_chen.htm). The main objectives for this position will be to 
use comparative proteomics coupled with mass spectrometry to identify suites of proteins that are differentially expressed in 
different glucosinolate related signaling and metabolic mutants and to correlate/cluster proteins into pathways and interacting 
networks. The laboratory is well-equipped for general molecular biology, biochemical and proteomics research. Specialist proteomics 
equipment in the Chen laboratory includes high resolution gel electrophoresis systems, HPLC and a 4000QTRAP MS/MS system. This 
position is for individuals capable of conducting independent research in the field of proteomics, molecular biology and 
biochemistry with emphasis on plant secondary metabolism. A Ph.D. in biochemistry, molecular biology or related discipline, 
a sound understanding/experience in mass spectrometry and protein analysis, and an enthusiasm/dedication for basic scientific 
research are required. Good written and verbal communication skills, and experience with large-scale data analysis, bioinformatics 
or statistics would be advantageous. Applicants should submit a CV, a short description of  research experience and three 
references (including phone and email addresses) by email to Dr. Sixue Chen (schen@ufl.edu).

-- 

Sixue Chen
Department of Botany; Genetics Institute
3187 McCarty A, PO Box 118526
University of Florida
Gainesville, FL 32611, USA
Voice: +1 352-392-3277; Fax: +1 352-392-3993
E-mail: schen@ufl.edu <mailto:schen@ufl.edu>
Web: http://www.botany.ufl.edu/Faculty/faculty_chen.htm

