POSTDOCTORAL POSITION in Functional Genomics of Glucosinolate Metabolism 
 
A postdoctoral position is open to study the molecular networks that regulate glucosinolate 
metabolism in model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. This project is funded by the National Science 
Foundation (NSF) to study key aspects of molecular networks regulating glucosinolate 
metabolism using multidisciplinary approaches including reverse genetics, molecular biology, 
biochemistry, proteomics, metabolomics and bioinformatics. 
The postdoctoral associates will be responsible for testing perturbation of glucosinolate 
metabolism, investigating molecular changes at protein and metabolite levels, correlating the 
changes and constructing networks using bioinformatics tools. The associate is expected to 
receive multidisciplinary training, work closely with collaborators in different areas, and be 
involved in the outreach activities of the project, such as educating high school teachers in the 
area of functional genomics. Applicants are expected to have a strong publication record and 
demonstrated expertise in one or more of these areas: gel- and/or liquid chromatography-based 
proteomics, plant molecular biology, functional genomics, metabolite profiling and metabolomics, 
and/or systems biology. Experience with protein or metabolite separation/purification and mass 
spectrometry would be an advantage. 
Applicants should send a cover letter, a statement of research interests and a CV including the 
names and contact information of three references to: Dr. Sixue Chen, Department of Biology, 
University of Florida, PO Box 118526, Gainesville, FL 32610, Email: schen@ufl.edu. More 
information about Chen lab research and education activities can be found at the following 
websites: http://www.biology.ufl.edu, http://www.moleculardetective.org,http://www.icbr.ufl.edu, htt
p://proteomics.centers.ufl.edu. Positions will remain open until filled. We encourage applications 
from individuals of diverse backgrounds.  University of Florida is committed to affirmative action, 
equal opportunity and the diversity of its workforce.
