Postdoctoral Positions in Polyploidy and Epigenetics at The University of Texas 
at Austin

We seek highly motivated scientists to work in a dynamic plant genetics and 
genomics laboratory. Depending on research interests and training, postdoctoral 
fellows will have options to work on functional diversification of duplicate 
genes and genomes and/or genetic and epigenetic mechanisms for non-additive gene 
regulation in Arabidopsis and cotton allopolyploids 
(http://polyploidy.biosci.utexas.edu). The projects are funded by the NIH and 
NSF.

Successful candidates should have a Ph.D. in Genetics, Plant Biology, Plant 
Biochemistry or Computational Biology with a solid training in Mendelian 
genetics  or evolutionary genetics  Demonstrated interest in genome evolution 
and epigenetic regulation of gene expression will likely be helpful, as will 
technical skills in DNA sequence analysis, RNA detection, protein assays, 
microRNAs, microarrays, computational analysis of genomic and microarray data. 
The positions are available immediately. Salary is competitive with experience.

Interested candidates should send a brief statement of career goals and a copy 
of curriculum vitae including names and addresses of three references via email 
to: Z. Jeffrey Chen (zjchen@mail.utexas.edu).

The Chen lab is located in the Section of Molecular Cell and Developmental 
Biology (MCDB) (http://www.biosci.utexas.edu/MCDB/) and the Institute for 
Cellular and Molecular Biology (http://www.icmb.utexas.edu/). There will be 
excellent opportunities for postdoctoral fellows and graduate students to 
interact with faculty and students among dynamic research groups in the MCDB, 
Integrative Biology (http://www.biosci.utexas.edu/IB/), and the Center for 
Computational Biology and Bioinformatics (http://ccbb.biosci.utexas.edu/).

According to the MONEY magazine and FORBES, Austin is one of the best places to 
live and for business in the US. The University of Texas at Austin 
(http://www.utexas.edu) is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity employer.


