Two postdoctoral positions are open to study the redox and metabolomic regulatory 
networks underlying guard cell ABA signal transduction in model plant Arabidopsis 
thaliana. This project is based on collaborative efforts between Dr. Sally Assmann’s 
laboratory at Pennsylvania State University 
(http://www.bio.psu.edu/People/Faculty/Assmann/) and Dr. Sixue Chen’s laboratory at 
University of Florida (http://web.botany.ufl.edu/people/index.html). The two laboratories 
will work jointly on the following key aspects of ABA signal transduction in guard cells: 
a) ABA-responsive redox proteins and their functions; b) dynamics of guard cell 
metabolites in response to ABA; and c) systems biology models of guard cell ABA signal 
transduction. The postdoctoral associates will be responsible for 2D gel- and/or liquid 
chromatography-based redox proteomics, functional characterization of candidate redox-
regulated proteins, metabolite profiling/metabolomics, and bioinformatics of guard cell 
redox proteins and metabolites. The associates are expected to receive multidisciplinary 
training, work in both laboratories if necessary, and be involved in the outreach activities 
of the project, such as organizing the summer proteomics workshop at University of 
Florida. Applicants are expected to have a strong publication record and demonstrated 
expertise in one or more of these areas: gel- and/or liquid chromatography-based 
proteomics, plant molecular biology, functional genomics, metabolite profiling and 
metabolomics, and/or plant systems biology. Experience with protein or metabolite 
separation/purification and mass spectrometry would be an advantage. Applicants should 
send a cover letter, a statement of research interests and a CV including the names and 
contact information of three references to: Dr. Sally Assmann, Department of Biology, 
Penn State University, 208 Mueller Lab., University Park, PA 16802, Email: 
sma3@psu.edu, or Dr. Sixue Chen, Department of Botany, UF Genetics Institute, 
Program of Plant Cell and Molecular Biology, University of Florida, PO Box 118526, 
Gainesville, FL 32610, Email: schen@ufl.edu. Applications will remain open until filled. 
Women and minorities are encouraged to apply. We encourage applications from 
individuals of diverse backgrounds.
