Postdoctoral Associate position in Plant Molecular Genetics

Required/Preferred Qualifications  
Department of Horticultural Science, University of Minnesota is seeking a Post-Doctoral Associate to 
work on a NSF sponsored project to investigate the genome-wide distribution of plant homologous 
recombination events and its impact on gene expression.

Ph.D. in plant Cellular and molecular biology/genetics/genomics/epigenetics or a related field. 
Knowledge and extensive bench experience in routine plant Cellular and molecular biology and genomics 
work such as isolation of genomic DNA, RNAs, PCR, quantitative PCR, molecular cloning, and gene 
expression in plants. The ability to communicate and work with others in the lab or collaborative 
labs is also required. In addition, experience in statistical analysis of large quantities of data or 
bioinformatics is desirable, and knowledge in working on the maize plant is a plus. Publication in 
peer-reviewed journals: One or more first-authored publication in peer reviewed journals is also 
desired.

The selected candidate must successfully clear a background investigation.  

Duties/Responsibilities  Duties will include designing and executing experiments related to 
microscopy, Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), transcriptome profiling, and computational analysis 
of large-scale genomic, transcriptomic, and epigenomic data, plant engineering and functional testing 
of small RNAs and their targeted genes in maize. This position has opportunities of summer exchanging 
with Cornell University, North Dakota State University and the National Center for Genome Resources. 
This position is a full-time, annually renewable, up to four years.    

Program/Unit Description  The Department of Horticultural Science is a nationally recognized 
department offering highly ranked programs of study at the undergraduate, Master of Science, Master 
of Agriculture, and PhD levels. The Department has a distinguished faculty who has won numerous 
University and national awards for quality teaching, outreach, and published research. The faculty 
work in a variety of fields including plant breeding, molecular genetics, plant hardiness, hormonal 
growth regulation, juvenility, environmental physiology, plant nutrition, post-harvest physiology, 
GIS data analysis and mapping, regional design, and rural sustainable development.

Application Instructions  To apply, send a cover letter, resume and the names and contact of three 
professional references to Dr. Changbin Chen at: chenx481@umn.edu. Or mail to: Changbin Chen, 
Department of Horticultural Science, University of Minnesota, 1970 Folwell Avenue, St. Paul, MN 
55108, USA. For a full position description, application procedures, or to apply online, visit 
https://employment.umn.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=91192 . University of Minnesota is an equal 
opportunity, affirmative action employer.

