Seeking: Scientist interested in technology transfer, intellectual
property, regulatory and policy.



The Public Intellectual Property Resource for Agriculture (PIPRA) is a
grant-supported program that coordinates agricultural intellectual
property (IP) management across 50 member institutions to enable
research projects that address specialty crops and/or humanitarian
projects in developing countries.  PIPRA manages a comprehensive patent
database comprising intellectual property from all member institutions,
creates and delivers educational programs to support intellectual
property management capacity building in developing countries, conducts
legal research to assess the freedom to operate around specific patented
agricultural technologies and implements collaborative strategies to
manage pools of intellectual property belonging to multiple
institutional owners.



There are four functional units within PIPRA:  IP Information Services
and Analysis, Education and Outreach, Biotechnology Resources, and
Intellectual Property management.  This position (IP Analyst) falls
within the IP Information Services and Analysis unit, and was created to
provide analytical services in support of legal research on various
projects undertaken by this unit. Under the direction of the unit
director, this position independently works with internal staff and
external organizations to ensure that PIPRA fulfills all requested
contractual services in a timely manner and provides quality analytical
data.



The analyst will participate in the following projects:

-assess the biofuel IP landscape associated with the use of
lignocellulosic biomass.

-provide analytical support for legal IP freedom-to-operate opinions of
specific technologies.

- review the US and international biosafety regulatory process as it
relates to specialty crops.



Analyses to be conducted will typically require cross-disciplinary
awareness of law, science, public policy, and information technology.
The analyst will independently set priorities, milestones, and presents
deliverables in written and/or oral format .



Time: 40 hours per week



Ideal candidates will meet the following criteria:



Education:  University degree is required- a degree in biological
sciences, plant biotechnology, biochemistry, or related field is
strongly preferred.  Patent agent certification or understanding of
legal IP issues is highly desired but NOT required. Understanding or
interest in learning about legal IP and regulatory issues is required.



Skills:

*        Demonstrated experience in project management and research,
especially as it relates to IP law, science, or policy.

*        Demonstrated ability to work independently.

*        Ability to professionally interact with representatives of
external organizations to fulfill requests and provide support.

*        Ability to design and supervise implementation of a variety of
projects related to IP management.

*        Demonstrated experience in oral and written communications with
a broad section of professionals in the legal, academic, and business
communities.

*        Ability to support development of institutional strategies
addressing complex issues involving IP law or policy.

*        Demonstrated skills in assessing priorities and strong
organizational skills to effectively work on multiple projects
simultaneously.

*        Demonstrated skill in data management and analysis.

*        Familiarity or ability to learn about, IP, scientific
literature, and other pertinent databases.

*        Excellent writing and speaking skills.

*        Ability to work effectively individually and as part of a team.

*        Professional skills, judgment and diplomacy to achieve
successful outcomes in sensitive or difficult interactions.

*        Computer skills in spreadsheets



This position offers a competitive salary determined by the successful
candidate's experience and full health benefits. Please send a statement
describing your interests, detailed curriculum vitae, and 2-3 letters of
references via email to Kathleen Bess, klbess@ucdavis.edu. Review of
applications will start August 15th, 2008 and continue until the
position is filled.



The University of California, Davis is an equal opportunity/affirmative
action employer.
