JOB OPENING RESEARCH ASSISTANT POSITION 
The Public Intellectual Property Resource for Agriculture 
University of California, Davis 
May 14, 2012 


A research position is available at the Public Intellectual Property 
Resource for Agriculture (PIPRA), a multi-institutional project hosted 
at the Department of Plant Sciences, University of California, Davis. 
PIPRA is an international collaboration of universities and 
not-for-profit research institutions focused on facilitating access to 
agricultural technologies for research, humanitarian, and commercial 
applications.  The center utilizes joint expertise in agronomic 
research, plant biology, intellectual property, regulatory, and legal 
issues, to support its platform of activities.  More information is 
available at PIPRA's website: 
http://www.pipra.org&lt;http://www.pipra.org/>. 

PIPRA is seeking a highly motivated research fellow to join its 
Science and Technology team.  The successful applicant will coordinate 
the field evaluation of different disease-resistance traits in 
biotechnology crops. The participant will contribute towards 
coordinating technology assessment and developing regulatory and down 
stream deployment strategies of genetically improved tree crops. 

The applicant will oversee management of field trials, maintenance of 
notifications and permits of PIPRA and its collaborating laboratories, 
and ensure best practices in working with biotechnology crops. 
Excellent communication skills are necessary to maintain a good 
working relationship with the academia, government, industry, research 
institutions and stakeholders.  The applicant will support educational 
activities by presenting and publishing materials necessary to educate 
and inform key stakeholders. 

The successful applicant must have degree in plant biology or related 
field, practical experience in field trials with GM crops is highly 
desirable. Advanced degree is preferred but not required. Knowledge in 
web-maintenance is also highly desirable. Evidence of proven research 
productivity is required and s/he should be able to work effectively 
in a research team and meet competing demands in time.  Successful 
applicant should have excellent written and oral English communication 
skills. 

Review of application will start immediately and continue until the 
position is filled.  This research position offers a competitive 
salary determined by the successful candidate's experience and full 
health benefits. Please send a statement describing your interests, 
detailed curriculum vitae, and 2-3 references to Alan B. Bennett via 
e-mail at abbennett@ucdavis.edu<mailto:abbennett@ucdavis.edu>. 


The University of California, Davis is an equal 
opportunity/affirmative action employer. 
