MARS Bioinformatics Postdoctoral Fellowship at UC Davis / USDA 

We are offering a 2 year postdoctoral position at the USDA-ARS Subtropical 
Horticulture Research Station in Miami, FL for a highly skilled scientist in 
bioinformatics. The successful candidate will be interested in working in 
collaboration with cutting-edge genomics labs atUC Davis, Stanford 
University and Washington State University and making original contributions 
to a diverse set of scientific projects. The primary research topic will be 
the analysis of the evolution and phylogeny of nuclear and organellar 
genomes. In collaboration with other scientists, the incumbent will also 
analyze differential gene expression patterns for gene function 
identification. 
The primary duties for this position are to design and implement pipelines 
for acquiring and assembling genomic data, to compare whole genome sequences 
and to analyze gene expression data. The incumbent will also be involved in 
building resources for research outreach in collaboration with WSU. This 
position requires an individual capable of communicating with students and 
researchers, handling and prioritizing duties across multiple projects, and 
working independently on critical tasks. 

Desired Qualifications 
- PhD in Biology, Statistics, Computer Science and 2+ years 
experience in bioinformatics. 
- Excellent problem solving and organization skills. 
- Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. 
- Excellent oral and written communication skills in English. 
- Strong statistical background and experience with R. 
- Proficiency with use of web databases including genome browsers. 
- Experience in programming C/C++ and Perl or Python, and experience with 
UNIX. 
- Experience with bioinformatic software (e.g. PLINK, BLAST, SAMtools) 
- Some knowledge of high-throughput genomics technologies or experience 
analyzing genomic data. 
- Familiarity with cloud computing (Amazon AWS). 

Interested candidates should contact both: abbennett@ucdavis.edu and 
juan.motamayor@effem.com 

For more information on our research: 
http://www.cacaogenomedb.org 
