Post-Doctoral Fellow Position

Department of Biology

Chungnam National University

Korea (South)

 

Hyung-Taeg Cho's Lab

 

 

A post-doctoral position in Hyung-Taeg Cho's Lab in the Department of
Biology at Chungnam National University is available for highly motivated
biologists who have interest in 'auxin signaling & transport' and 'plant
cell differentiation'. We have developed a root hair cell system to study
the action of auxin and cell differentiation (please see below our recent
publications). This root hair system will be used to elucidate the
regulation of auxin transport, the role of auxin-signaling molecules, and
the mechanism of cell type-specific gene regulation.

 

Candidates should have a PhD and experiences in plant molecular biology,
gene cloning, and analyses of transgenic plants. Experiences in plant
genetic analyses are desirable. Reasonable levels of writing and verbal
communicating skills (in English or/and Korean) are required. Successful
applicants will be capable of independent thought and designing experiments.
Because our research is oriented very basic in plant biology fields, a
self-motivation and creative thought are highly required.

 

The appointee will lead a small group of graduates and undergraduates.

 

The position can start between September and December 2007. 

Applications should arrive by August 31, 2007.

 

Pleases submit your

1.       curriculum vitae

2.       publication list

3.       statement of research experience including experimental skills

4.       three references and their contact information including e-mails

 

[Contact information]

Hyung-Taeg Cho (Ph.D.)
Assistant Professor
Department of Biology
Chungnam National University
Daejeon 305-764
Korea (South)
Office) +82-42-821-6410
Fax) +82-42-822-9690
E-mail) htcho@cnu.ac.kr
HomePage) http://bio.cnu.ac.kr/celldiffer/

 

[References for our recent research]

 

Kim DW, Lee SH, Choi S-B, Won S-K, Heo Y-K, Cho M, Park Y-I, and Cho H-T
(2006) Functional Conservation of a Root Hair Cell-Specific cis-Element in
Angiosperms with Different Root Hair Distribution Patterns. Plant Cell 18,
2958-2970. 

 

Lee SH and Cho H-T (2006) PINOID Positively Regulates Auxin Efflux in
Arabidopsis Root Hair Cells and Tobacco Cells. Plant Cell 18, 1604-1616.

 

 

 

* Chungnam National University is located in the west of Daejeon city (1.2 M
people) which is apart about 150 km south of the capitol city Seoul. The
campus is residing in the science complex where many scientific institutes
spread around. Within a 20 minute driving distance, beautiful mountain areas
are the best for hiking in any season.

 
