Postdoctoral Research Associate on RNA Interference Technology
One to two postdoctoral research associate positions are available immediately 
for energetic individuals with a firm background training in molecular biology or 
biochemistry and a prior PhD research work on Arabidopsis, C. elegans or other 
related model species. Special preferences are given to candidates who have 
performed RNA interference (RNAi) experiments on these model species. The 
annual salary will be no less than $40K and commensurate with candidate 
qualification. These positions are expected to last four years until August 2013, 
subject to the continuous funding support from National Science Foundation 
(NSF).
The successful candidates will be given the resource and guidance to conduct 
research on RNAi transfection technologies. The candidates will devise more 
controllable, economical and efficient RNAi delivery procedures for various model 
species, and to design and perform experiments involving RNAi transfections, 
microarray hybridizations and qRT-PCRs to validate the newly developed RNAi 
transfection procedures. The new postdocs will be members of our new NSF 
sponsored project team to develop optimal siRNA design software based on 
whole genome thermodynamic analysis. This project will use the novel RNAi 
transfection procedures to validate the designed siRNAs in vivo.
For these postdoc positions, applicants must hold a Ph.D. degree in related fields 
with the preferred expertise as stated above. Use of computers in solving 
biological research problems will be an essential part of the project. 
Nevertheless, prior experience in bioinformatics is helpful but not essential - we 
will train the new postdocs on the job for using computational biology techniques. 
To apply, please send a letter of intent stating your future research interest and 
also a curriculum vitae documenting your past experience to Dr. Chou's email 
address below. Upon request from us, applicants may be asked to solicit three 
reference letters to be sent directly to the same email address below.
Our laboratory conducts interdisciplinary research, taking advantage of 
expertises from both computational and biological sciences, We are a member of 
the Iowa State bioinformatics research community and are affiliated with 
the Laurence H. Baker Center for Bioinformatics and Biological Statistics, 
the Center for Plant Genomes, the Center for Integrated Animal Genomics and 
the Plant Sciences Institute. We are also affiliated with the Bioinformatics and 
Computational Biology Interdepartmental Graduate Major and the Bioinformatics 
and Computational Biology Undergraduate Major at Iowa State University.
Dr. Hui-Hsien Chou  
Complex Computation Lab  
Department of Genetics, Development and Cell Biology  
Department of Computer Science  
Iowa State University  
Ames, IA 50011-3223  
 
Email: hhchou at iastate dot edu

