
   Post-doctoral position: interdisciplinary study of phototropism in
   Arabidopsis
 
   The laboratories of Christian Fankhauser (Center for Integrative
   Genomics) and Marc Robinson-Rechavi (Department of Ecology and
   Evolution and Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics) seek a highly
   motivated and self-directed postdoctoral fellow to study phototropism
   in Arabidopsis thaliana using a  combination of experimental biology
   and bioinformatics. The group of Christian Fankhauser is studying
   signal transduction during phototropism (see PNAS 2006, vol. 103:
   10134-10139; Plant J. 2004 40: 826-834). Recent studies have
   demonstrated that genome duplication events have lead to the
   acquisition of pairs of genes that are typically involved in signal
   transduction where the paralogs have acquired novel functions. The
   selected candidate is expected to study this possibility using
   bioinformatics tools that are developed or routinely used in the lab
   of Marc Robinson-Rechavi. Genes  selected from this in silico approach
   will then be functionally characterized in the lab of Christian
   Fankhauser. Technical help will be available for both the
   bioinformatic and experimental approaches.   The selected candidate
   should either have a good training in molecular genetics in
   Arabidopsis and have a strong interest in bioinformatics and
   evolution, or be a bioinformatician with a background in biology, who
   is interested in performing experimental molecular genetics and cell
   biology to study phototropism  in Arabidopsis.  The research
   environment at the University of Lausanne is highly motivating and
   pluri-disciplinary. The  person performing this project will be
   exposed to a wide variety of experimental approaches. This position is
   funded for an initial period of 2 years. Lausanne also offers a very
   nice environment with the proximity of the lake and mountains and its
   central position in Europe.   If you are interested, please send your
   CV with names of three references by Email to Prof. Christian
   Fankhauser ([1]Christian.fankhauser@unil.ch).
   
 
