Post Doctoral Position in Plant Evolutionary Genomics at the New York 
University Center for Genomics and Systems Biology 

A Post-doctoral position is available as part of the NSF Plant Genome Grant 
DBI -0922738 entitled: "Comparative Genomics of Seed Evolution". The 
successful applicant will have skills and experience in Genomics, 
Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Biology. The position will include 
experimental/informatic analysis on NextGen datasets (e.g. overseeing 
laboratory work, planning, leading and conducting analyses on RNASeq data). 
 Skills in R, Perl, Python or other programming language are strongly 
preferred. This position also includes Project Manager duties, which involve 
coordinating scientific activities at four participating institutions; 
organizing group meetings, writing grant reports, and communicating our work 
in conferences and meetings. 

This project involves the collaboration of systematists, molecular 
biologists, genome scientists and bioinformaticians from four 
research/educational institutions. PI: Gloria Coruzzi (NYU Center for 
Genomics and Systems Biology); Co-PI(s): Robert DeSalle (AMNH); Dennis W 
Stevenson (NYBG); W. Richard McCombie (CSHL); Senior Personnel(s): Rob 
Martienssen (CSHL); Dennis Shasha (NYU). 

Project description: This project involves the construction and analysis of 
a phylogenomic view of the seed plants. In the previous cycle of funding, 
we generated BigPlant v1.0 a phylogenomic tree constructed from a matrix of 
22,121 orthologs from 150 seed plant species (http://nypg.bio.nyu.edu/bp/). 
 The main goal of our current funding cycle is to generate 
deep-transcriptomes to fill key gaps in taxa and genomic coverage in the 
seed plant phylogenetic tree, and to develop bioinformatic and phylogenomic 
resources that will enable a better understanding of the evolutionary 
history of plants. Overview of Aims 1-4: Aim 1: Select 35 species for 
transcriptome analysis of leaf, ovule and seed RNA (RNASeq) to fill in gaps 
in depth/breath of taxa/ortholog coverage in BigPlant phylogenomic tree and 
to provide expression data. Aim 2: Generate deep-transcriptome data used for 
unigene assembly, ortholog identification and expression data. Aim 3: 
Automate recurrent growth of our current phylogenomic matrix and integrate 
trait and expression data as characters. Develop phylogenomic and machine 
learning methods to make functional predictions for genes associated with 
clades and/or traits of economic interest. Aim 4: Perform functional 
validation of trait-to-gene predictions for seed traits in model 
(Arabidopsis) and crop (maize) species. Project website: 
http://nypg.bio.nyu.edu/main/. 

Please send resume and 3 letters of reference to: 

 Dr. Gloria Coruzzi (gc2@nyu.edu) 
New York University Biology 

Center for Genomics and Systems Biology 

12 Waverly Place, 8th Floor 

New York, NY 10003 

