Assistant Professor Biology Department  
 
The Department of Biology at the University of Massachusetts Boston seeks  
applicants for a full-time tenure-track Assistant Professor who specializes  
in molecular evolution, phylogenetics, bioinformatics, or a closely related  
field starting in September 2010. Applicants should be well versed in  
evolutionary and ecological theory. Applications will be particularly  
welcome from candidates who utilize creative experimental approaches that  
combine molecular biology, genetics and bioinformatics to address complex  
problems and who can participate in an interdisciplinary Ph.D. program. The  
research specialty of the applicants could include molecular evolution,  
phylogeography, phylogenetics, modeling or other cross-disciplinary fields.  
 
The successful applicant is expected to establish an externally funded  
research program, direct the research of students at the undergraduate,  
master's and doctoral levels, and interact with a dynamic group of  
ecologists, environmental, evolutionary and computational biologists.  
Excellence in teaching at the undergraduate and graduate levels is expected.  
A Ph.D. and postdoctoral training (or equivalent professional experience)  
are required. Members of underrepresented groups and women are strongly  
encouraged to apply.  
 
Applicants should send a statement of teaching and research interests and  
goals, curriculum vitae, 3-5 representative reprints, and three letters of  
reference. We prefer application material be sent electronically to  
biology@umb.edu. If e-files exceed 15mb, please break into smaller segments  
and send as multiple emails. Hard copies can be sent to:  
Bioinformatics/Molecular Evolution Search, Biology Department, University of  
Massachusetts Boston, 100 Morrissey Blvd., Boston, MA 02125. For further  
information, visit the Biology Department website at  
(http://www.bio.umb.edu), or contact Ron Etter, Chair of Search Committee,  
at ron.etter@umb.edu or (617)-287-6613. 
