 
ASSISTANT/ ASSOCIATE/ FULL PROFESSOR IN CELL SIGNALING
UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS BOSTON
 
The Department of Biology at the University of Massachusetts Boston seeks
applicants for a full-time tenure track Assistant Professor or tenured
Associate or Full Professor in Cell Signaling to begin in September 2008.
The successful applicant is expected to establish an externally funded
research program, direct the research of students at the undergraduate,
masters and doctoral levels, and interact with a vibrant group of cell
biologists.  Applications will be particularly welcome from candidates who
utilize creative experimental approaches combining molecular and cellular
biology, genetics and bioinformatics and who can participate in an
interdisciplinary Ph. D. program applying basic research in cellular and
molecular biology to medical and environmental problems.   Excellence in
teaching undergraduate and graduate courses in Cell Biology or Developmental
Biology is expected.  Applicants at the Associate and Full Professor ranks
should have a record of sustained external funding.  A Ph.D. and
postdoctoral training (or equivalent professional experience) in cellular,
developmental or molecular biology is required.  Members of underrepresented
groups and women are strongly encouraged to apply.

Applications should include a curriculum vitae, 3-5 representative reprints,
a description of teaching and research interests, and arrange for three
reference letters to be sent separately to Dr. Kenneth C. Kleene, Cell
Signaling Search 670E, Department of Biology, University of Massachusetts
Boston, 100 Morrissey Blvd., Boston, MA 02125.  Email applications in PDF
format are welcome.   Questions about the position can be addressed to
Kenneth Kleene at  Kenneth.kleene@umb.edu <mailto:Kenneth.kleene@umb.edu>
or 617-287-6679.   Review of applications will start Nov. 15, and continue
until the position is filled. UMass Boston is an Affirmative Action, Equal
Opportunity Title IX Employer.
 

BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT
 
The Department of Biology has 24 full-time faculty members whose research
interests are almost divided equally between Ecology and Environmental
Biology, and Molecular and Cellular Biology.  The experimental systems of
the Molecular and Cellular Biologists include bacteria, yeast, plants,
insects and mammals; descriptions of the research interests can be found at
http://www.bio.umb.edu.  About two-thirds of Biology Department faculty have
externally funded research programs, mostly by the National Science
foundation, and a third have multiple grants.  UMass Boston is also the
recipient of a NIH U56 grant to promote interactions with the Dana Farber
Cancer Institute and Harvard Cancer Centers.  The Biology Department has
~400 undergraduates, ~40 master's students and ~40 Ph.D. students.  Faculty
in the Molecular Cell Biology group can train Ph.D. students in two
programs, Molecular Cellular and Organismal Biology, and an intercampus
program in Biomedical Engineering and Biotechnology.  UMass Boston has many
shared pieces of equipment including a confocal microscope, DNA sequencer, a
real time PCR, fluorescent microscopes, ultracentrifuges and a
phosphorimager.   UMass Boston plans to build new buildings to house
research and teaching in the biological sciences.
 
UMass Boston has a very diverse student body with the greatest percentage of
students of color of any four-year college in New England.  The average age
of undergraduates is 27, and a high proportion work to support their
education.  
 
RESEARCH INTERESTS
 
The search committee places few restrictions on the research interests of
the cell signaling biologist.  We are looking for an individual with a high
potential for long term external funding and who can interact productively
with other molecular and cellular biology faculty.
 
TEACHING RESPONSIBILITIES
 
Most Biology faculty teach two courses each year, an undergraduate course
and a graduate course in their specialty.  The cell signaling biologist will
be expected to teach an undergraduate course in either cell biology or
developmental biology.  Both courses are offered with a lecture which meets
three times a week and a three hour laboratory which meets once a week.
Laboratories are usually staffed by teaching assistants.
 
It should be noted that university policy specifies that each faculty member
have nine teaching contact hours a week. However, course load reductions are
given to new faculty, and faculty with large numbers of graduate students
and external funding.  Nearly all Biology faculty teach three hours a week.
 
The Biology Department is proud to be recognized as having the highest
standards of undergraduate and graduate teaching in the university, and has
a strong record of involving undergraduates in research.
 
SALARY, START UP, AND LABORATORY SPACE
 
The cell signaling position includes laboratory space, start up funds to
equip a laboratory, and a salary that is comparable to those at similar
institutions.  
 
QUESTIONS
 
If you have questions about the position, feel free to contact Dr. Kenneth
Kleene, Chair of the Search Committee: 617-287-6679 or
Kenneth.Kleene@umb.edu. 


