ASSISTANT PROFESSOR 
 
QUANTITATIVE BIOLOGY OR BIOINFORMATICS 
 
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY 
 
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA AT CHAPEL HILL 
 
The Department of Biology at the University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill invites 
 
applications for a tenure-track Assistant Professor in Quantitative 
Biology or 
 
Bioinformatics. We seek a researcher who is applying quantitative and/or 
computational 
 
methods to the study of molecular, cellular or developmental systems. 
Examples of 
 
appropriate specializations include, but are not limited to, the study 
of physical processes 
 
within the cell, developmental processes unfolding at multiple scales, 
and the use of 
 
genomic data to study the biology of microbial communities. Research may 
or may not 
 
be purely computational. The successful candidate will contribute to a 
new initiative in 
 
Quantitative Biology and be affiliated with the NIH-funded graduate 
Curriculum in 
 
Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (http://bcb.unc.edu). 
 
To apply, submit a cover letter, CV, research and teaching statements, 
and optionally one 
 
additional supporting document online at http://hr.unc.edu/jobseekers 
(recruitment ID 
 
1001095). At least four letters of reference are required. Electronic 
copies should be sent 
 
to cpasternak@bio.unc.edu and signed hardcopies to: Quantitative Biology 
Search 
 
Committee, Campus Box 3280, Department of Biology, University of North 
Carolina, 
 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599. Review of applications will begin November 19, 
2008. The 
 
position will be effective on or after July 1, 2009 and will remain open 
until filled. The 
 
successful candidate must have a Ph.D. in Biology, Applied Math, 
Computer Science, or 
 
related field by the effective date. The University of North Carolina is 
an equal 
 
opportunity employer. For inquiries, please contact Dr. Todd Vision 
(tjv@bio.unc.edu; 
 
919-843-4507) or Dr. Jason Lieb (jlieb@bio.unc.edu; 919-843-3228). 
 
The Department of Biology (http://www.bio.unc.edu) consists of over 40 
faculty engaged 
 
in basic research in the life sciences. The Carolina Center for Genome 
Sciences 
 
(http://genomics.unc.edu/) co-ordinates genomics research, training and 
outreach across 
 
campus, and a new Genome Sciences Building is currently under 
construction to house 
 
and foster collaboration between experimental, computational, and 
theoretical scientists. 
 
UNC faculty, postdocs and graduate students routinely interact with 
colleagues at nearby 
 
Duke and North Carolina State Universities, as well as other 
institutions in Research 
 
Triangle Park. The quality of life in North Carolina's Triangle area is 
consistently rated 
 
among the highest in the nation
