Postdoctoral Position: Regulation of Meiotic Recombination 
 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
 
 
 
A postdoctoral position is open immediately in the lab of Dr. Gregory 
Copenhaver (http://www.bio.unc.edu/faculty/copenhaver/lab/) in the 
Department of Biology (http://www.bio.unc.edu/) at The University of 
North Carolina (http://www.unc.edu/) in beautiful Chapel Hill.  The 
position is fully funded for a three year period including health 
benefits.  The long-term goal of the project is to understand how 
meiotic recombination is regulated in plants.  Specific goals include 
characterizing novel recombination mutants recently discovered in the 
lab and using reverse genetics to evaluate the influence of specific 
target genes on crossover control.  Meiotic recombination results in the 
heritable rearrangement of DNA, primarily through reciprocal exchange 
between homologous chromosome or gene conversion.  In plants these 
events are critical for ensuring proper chromosome segregation, 
facilitating DNA repair and providing a basis for genetic diversity.  We 
have developed as a facile system for visually assaying recombination 
using tetrad analysis in Arabidopsis.  This work builds on the previous 
accomplishments of our lab previous accomplishments including: 
 
 
 
1. Berchowitz LE, Copenhaver GP (2008) Fluorescent Arabidopsis tetrads: 
A visual assay for quickly developing large crossover and crossover 
interference datasets.  Nature Protocols 3(1): 41-50. 
 
2.         Berchowitz LE, Francis KE, Bey AL, Copenhaver GP (2007) The 
Role of AtMUS81 in Interference-Insensitive Crossovers in A. thaliana. 
PLoS Genetics 3(8): e132 doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.0030132. 
 
3.         Francis KE, Lam SY, Harrison BD, Bey AL, Berchowitz LE, 
Copenhaver GP (2007) Pollen-tetrad based visual assay for meiotic 
recombination in Arabidopsis.  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 104: 
3913-3918. 
 
The successful applicant will have a strong background in molecular 
biology (plant-specific background a plus but not required) and will 
have the opportunity to gain experience in forward and reverse genetics, 
microscopy and statistical analysis.  Preference will be given to 
candidates who are able to begin the position soon.  Applicants should 
submit a CV, a short description of research experience and three 
references (including phone and email addresses) by email to Dr. Gregory 
Copenhaver (gcopenhaver@bio.unc.edu).
