The Michael Smith Laboratories and the Centre for High-Throughput Biology

SIX FACULTY POSITIONS
THE UNIVERSITY OF BRITISH COLUMBIA

The Michael Smith Laboratories (MSL) and the Centre for High-throughput Biology (CHiBi) at the 
University of British Columbia are jointly launching a major recruiting initiative and invite 
applications for six new faculty positions. These full-time tenure-track positions will be filled 
primarily at the Assistant Professor level but exceptional candidates at a higher rank may be 
considered. The six new faculty will be located in exceptional research space at the centre of 
campus within a highly interdisciplinary and collaborative environment that includes biological and 
physical scientists and engineers, as well as proteomics and bioinformatics experts.

----------

METABOLIC ENGINEERING and SYNTHETIC BIOLOGY (competition # 7789)
All facets of metabolic engineering and synthetic biology, from technology development and 
computational approaches to innovative applications, will be considered. Applicants with an interest 
in bioenergy and biorefining are particularly encouraged to apply.

CHEMICAL, MOLECULAR AND SYSTEMS BIOLOGY, and BIOENGINEERING (competition # 7790)
Approaches using molecular genetics, chemical, computational or molecular biology or bioengineering 
to probe animals, plants and unicellular organisms, and models of disease therein, will be considered.

COMPUTATIONAL TOOLS AND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT (competition # 7795)
The development of innovative technologies, devices, computational approaches or chemical and 
biophysical techniques is welcomed, with particular emphasis on genome-wide and high-throughput 
approaches.

----------

Successful applicants for these positions must have a Ph.D., will have demonstrated outstanding 
research strength and creativity, have several years of productive experience, will be expected to 
contribute to high quality undergraduate/graduate teaching and to effectively supervise graduate 
students, and be prepared to integrate their expertise with innovative researchers at the University.  
Academic appointments could be within or between departments in the Faculties of Applied Science, 
Forestry, Medicine and/or Science, evidence of teaching effectiveness would be an asset.

The Michael Smith Laboratories and the Centre for High-throughput Biology comprise a diverse group 
of 22 research and teaching faculty and over 150 graduate students, post-doctoral fellows and 
research associates.  Research strengths include medical and animal molecular genetics/biology, 
plant and forest molecular genetics/biology, bioprocess engineering, chemical biology, proteomics, 
micro-fluidics, bioinformatics and statistical genomics.  Importantly the group is also providing 
leadership for the Bio-energy and Refining Innovation (BERI) network as part of a university-wide 
initiative in sustainability.  Applicants are strongly encouraged to visit 
http://www.michaelsmith.ubc.ca/  and http://www.chibi.ubc.ca/ to learn more about the unique 
technological and research opportunities available to new faculty members.  Substantial start-up 
funds and exceptional mentoring will be provided. 

UBC with over 12,000 faculty and staff plus 8,000 graduate students, has deep research strength 
across the Applied Sciences, the Life Sciences, the Physical Sciences and Computation, and has formal 
associations with research hospitals, the British Columbia Cancer Agency, Genome British Columbia, 
the Genome Sciences Centre, the Centre for Drug Research and Development and the Institute for 
Systems Biology in Seattle. Researchers thus enjoy numerous opportunities for stimulating and 
productive collaborations. Opportunities exist to attract substantial research funding from 
government (e.g. Canadian Institutes for Health Research, Natural Sciences and Engineering Research 
Council of Canada, Canadian Foundation for Innovation), foundations (e.g. Michael Smith Foundation, 
Genome Canada) and industry.

Applications are being accepted on-line at http://www.hr.ubc.ca/careers/faculty_postings.html and 
should include a letter of application indicating the appropriate competition number, a detailed 
curriculum vitae, a list of publications, a statement of research and teaching interests, and the 
name, address, e-mail address and phone number of at least three referees.  All positions are subject 
to final budgetary approval. The closing date for all applications is September 14, 2010.

UBC hires on the basis of merit and is committed to employment equity.  We encourage all qualified 
persons to apply; however, Canadians and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority.


