Post-doc position in comparative genomics and evolution of host specialization and 
virulence at UNC-Chapel Hill

We are using new whole genome sequencing technologies to study the
evolution of host-specialization and virulence in Pseudomonas syringae
pathovars.  This is a NIH funded collaboration between Dr. Jeff
Dangl and Dr. Corbin D. Jones.  We seek a highly motivated post-doc
interested in merging computational and experimental biology.  Ideal
candidates will have a strong evolutionary background and experience
bioinformatics, programming, or genome assembly.

The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill is a diverse campus
located in the Research Triangle of North Carolina.  Both North
Carolina State University and Duke University are close by.  UNC-CH is
repeatedly ranked one of the best public Universities and a great
place to post-doc.

Candidates should contact Corbin Jones at cdjones@ email.unc.edu


Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Grad Student Position

Project Description:  Develop and apply novel algorithms for whole
genome assembly using new high throughput genome sequencing
technologies.

We are using new whole genome sequencing technologies to study the
evolution of host-specialization and virulence in Pseudomonad
pathovars.  This is a NIH funded collaboration between Dr. Jeff L.
Dangl and Dr. Corbin D. Jones.  We seek highly motivated graduate
students interested in developing approaches and software tools for
the assembly of bacterial genomes using new short read sequencing
technology.  In contrast to traditional approaches to genome
sequencing, which are quite expensive, several new technologies—e.g.
Roche/454 and Illumina/Solexa Genome Analyzer—have been developed that
produce shorter more error prone DNA sequence at greatly reduced
cost.  As the throughput and quality of these new technologies
improves, they will likely supplant existing genome sequencing
technologies.  Currently, there is a great need for software tools to
analyze these data.  The unique characteristics of these data,
however, prevent rote application of traditional methods.  Thus, there
is a critical need to develop novel computational approaches to
working with these new technologies.

The Jones and Dangl labs are looking for a graduate student to be co-
advised on this project.  No prior experience with genome assembly
required, only motivated, enthusiastic students are needed.  We’ll
teach you what you need to know.

Candidates should apply to the BBSP Graduate Program at:

http://www.med.unc.edu/bbsp/

Websites:
http://www.bio.unc.edu/Faculty/CDJones/Lab/
http://www.bio.unc.edu/dangl/lab/

Related publications:

Jeck WR, Reinhardt JA, Baltrus DA, Hickenbotham MT, Magrini V, Mardis
ER, Dangl JL, Jones CD. 2007. Extending assembly of short DNA
sequences to handle error. Bioinformatics. 2007 Sep 24;

Grant SR, Fisher EJ, Chang JH, Mole BM, Dangl JL. 2006. Subterfuge and
manipulation: type III effector proteins of phytopathogenic bacteria.
Annu Rev Microbiol.60:425-49.

Jones JD, Dangl JL. 2006. The plant immune system. Nature. Nov
16;444(7117):323-9.
