POSITION ANNOUNCEMENT
FUNCTIONAL AND BIOCHEMICAL LEGUME CROP GENOMICS
COLLEGE OF FOOD, AGRICULTURAL AND NATURAL RESOURCE SCIENCES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRONOMY AND PLANT GENETICS
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA

POSITION:  Functional and Biochemical Legume Crop Genomics tenure-track Assistant Professor, 
nine month appointment
CLOSING DATE:  Applications will be reviewed starting  December 1, 2006, until a suitable 
candidate is identified.
LOCATION:  Department of Agronomy and Plant Genetics, College of Food, Agricultural and Natural 
Resource Sciences, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN 55108
POSITION AVAILABLE:  Fall term, 2007
The University of Minnesota seeks applicants for a tenure-track Assistant Professor position in 
Functional and Biochemical Legume Crop Genomics.  The tenure home for the position will be based 
in the Department of Agronomy and Plant Genetics.
RESPONSIBILITES:  Innovative approaches with soybean and other crop legumes will be used to 
identify and understand the function of specific genes in biochemical pathways.  Priority will 
be given to translational research efforts that result in the understanding and manipulation of 
biochemical pathways leading to the production of unique and useful products in legume crops 
such as soybean.  In addition, priority will be given to research efforts that couple the 
emerging legume (soybean and Medicago) genome sequences with functional and biochemical 
genomics in legume crops.  This position will leverage the substantial strength at the 
University and the Plant Science USDA-ARS unit in legume biology, breeding and genomics.  
Opportunities exist for interactions with colleagues in the Microbial and Plant Genomics Institute, 
the Initiative for Renewable Energy and the Environment, the Healthy Foods / Healthy Lives 
Presidential Initiative, the Medicago Genome Sequencing Initiative, the Center for Mass 
Spectrometry and Proteomics, the Academic Health Center as well as faculty directing field-based 
programs.  Applicants with a background in model plant systems who are interested in pursuing 
opportunities in crop plants are encouraged to apply.  The successful candidate will be expected 
to develop a vigorous, independent research program supported by extramural funding.  Supervision 
and mentoring of graduate students along with teaching a graduate course and an undergraduate 
course in the field is expected.
REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS:  A Ph.D. in plant genetics or a plant genetics-related field.  
Research experience in biochemical genetics, functional genomics, or related fields.
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:  Postdoctoral training and experience with legume crop genetic research.  
Documented ability to compete for extramural grants.  Evidence of successful cross-disciplinary 
research and teaching.
SALARY AND BENEFITS:  Salary is competitive and commensurate with the professional experience 
and qualifications. Fringe benefits include employee health, dental, and faculty life/disability 
insurance, social security, faculty retirement and opportunities for professional development.

APPLICATION:  It is preferred that applicants submit their application materials online at 
http://www1.umn.edu/ohr/employment/ attaching a cover letter, CV, statement of research 
accomplishments and interests (two pages), and a statement of teaching experience and research 
interests (one page).  Also, arrange for three letters of reference to be sent.  Applications 
may also be submitted by e-mail to Jeanne Davy (davyx001@umn.edu) or by mail to Jeanne Davy, 
Department of Agronomy and Plant Genetics, University of Minnesota, 411 Borlaug Hall, 
1991 Upper Buford Circle, St. Paul, MN 55108.
For further information, please contact Gary Muehlbauer, Search Committee Chair, at 
612-625-6228 or muehl003@umn.edu


The University of Minnesota is committed to policy that all persons shall have equal 
access to its programs, facilities, and employment without regard to race, color, creed, 
religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, disability, public assistance status, 
veteran status or sexual orientation.

