One 3 yr post-doctoral position (post 1655, salary range ~24-27K) is available 
in Caroline Dean's group at the John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK starting 
immediately. This is a BBSRC-funded project entitled 'Natural variation in 
vernalization response of Arabidopsis accessions'. The plan is to exploit our 
understanding of the molecular basis of vernalization in Arabidopsis 
(http://www.jic.ac.uk/staff/caroline-dean/index.htm) and the adaptive importance 
of this trait and combine a molecular, evolutionary and ecological study to 
understand how Arabidopsis accessions have spread to very different parts of 
Europe. Analysis of flowering in Arabidopsis accessions provides a rare 
opportunity to link mechanistic understanding of a complex trait with an 
understanding of the fitness consequences of different alleles and thus 
distribution within the population. The specific aims (for two post-doctoral 
fellows, one already appointed) will be to 
1) fully define the molecular variation underpinning the natural variation in 
accessions carefully selected to represent a range of vernalization responses 
2) to investigate how that molecular variation has resulted in changed flowering 
phenotype. 

We will also analyse the range of allelic variation and pattern of polymorphism 
in the loci involved to understand their molecular evolution and determine the 
fitness consequences of that variation in different environments to investigate 
the selective forces that have resulted in the phenotypic variability in natural 
populations. This will be in collaboration with Dr Magnus Nordborg (U. S. 
California) and Dr Johanna Schmitt (Brown U. RI).

If interested please email to caroline.dean@bbsrc.ac.uk.

Recent relevant publications: 
Bastow R, Mylne J. S., Lister C., Lippman Z., Martienssen R.A. & Dean C. (2004) 
Vernalization requires epigenetic silencing of FLC by histone methylation. 
Nature 427, 164-167.

Shindo, C., Aranzana, M.J., Lister, C., Baxter, C., Nicholls, C., Nordborg, M., 
Dean, C. (2005) Role of FRIGIDA and FLOWERING LOCUS C in determining variation 
in flowering time in Arabidopsis accessions Plant Physiol. 138, 1163-73

Aranzana, M, Kim, S., Zhao, K., Bakker E., Horton M., Jakob K., Lister C., 
Molitor J., Shindo C., Tang C., Toomajian C., Traw B., Zheng H., Bergelson J., 
Dean C., Marjoram P., Nordborg M. (2005) Genome-wide association mapping in 
Arabidopsis thaliana identifies previously known genes responsible for variation 
in flowering time and pathogen resistance PLoS Genetics Nov 11;1(5):e60

Toomajian, C., Hu, T., Aranzana, MJ., Lister, C., Tang, C., Zheng, H., 
Calíbrese, P., Dean, C., Nordborg, M. (2005) A nonparametric test reveals 
selection for rapid flowering in the Arabidopsis genome PLoS Biology 
May;4(5):e137

Shindo C, Lister C, Crevillen P, Nordborg M, Dean C. (2006) Variation in the 
epigenetic silencing of FLC contributes to natural variation in Arabidopsis 
vernalization response. Genes Dev 20(22):3079-83

Greb T, Mylne JS, Crevillen P, Geraldo N, An H, Gendall AR, Dean C. (2007) The 
PHD Finger Protein VRN5 Functions in the Epigenetic Silencing of Arabidopsis 
FLC. Curr Biol. 17, 73-78.



