Plant Metabolomics/Metabolic Engineering 
Assistant Professor 
Department of Plant Pathology, Physiology & Weed Science College of Agriculture & 
Life Sciences 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech) 
 
Position Description: 
The Department of Plant Pathology, Physiology & Weed Science at Virginia Tech seeks 
applicants for a tenure track position in Plant Metabolomics/Metabolic Engineering at the 
Assistant Professor level. Research focus should be on plant metabolism and metabolic 
engineering problems, for example in bio-design, bio-processing, bio-fuels, production of 
novel compounds, improved quality or yield of existing plant natural products, or other 
value-added traits. The successful applicants are expected to: 1) develop an extramurally 
funded, internationally recognized research program, 2) mentor students, and 3) team 
teach graduate-level courses in plant metabolism. The candidate will participate in a 
strong interdepartmental Molecular Plant Science graduate program.  Additional 
information about the department can be found at http://www.ppws.vt.edu. 
 
Applicants must complete the application for position #081134 on-line at 
https://www.jobs.vt.edu.  A complete application must include a cover letter, curriculum 
vitae, a research & teaching statement, and contact information for three references 
submitted on-line by December 15th.  Review of applications will begin on that date and 
will continue until the position is filled. 
 
Virginia Tech has a strong commitment to the principles of diversity, inclusion, and to 
maintaining a work and learning environment that is free of all forms of discrimination. 
As a result this institution does not tolerate discrimination or harassment on the basis of 
age, color, disability, gender, national origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sexual 
orientation, or veteran status. Anyone having questions concerning discrimination should 
contact the Office of Equal Opportunity.
