Chair of the Department of Biology 
Colorado State University 
OPEN SEARCH 
JOB DESCRIPTION and LONG ADVERTISEMENT 

DESCRIPTION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY: The Department of Biology at 
Colorado State University is one of eight departments in the College of 
Natural Sciences. The Department has a strong commitment to undergraduate 
and graduate teaching, as well as excellence in research supported by >$30 
million dollars in active grants. Faculty research interests include global 
ecological change, organismal interactions with pathogens, evolutionary 
ecology, stream ecology, developmental and physiological processes, 
regulation of gene expression, synthetic biology, molecular evolution, and 
plant biotechnology. The Department is home to about 1600 undergraduate 
majors, 75 graduate students, 65 postdoctoral fellows and research 
associates, and 30 regular faculty members. 
Colorado State University and the Department of Biology provide a highly 
collaborative and supportive environment with opportunities to interact 
with faculty in other colleges on campus through programs such as the 
Program in Molecular Plant Biology (http://plant.biology.colostate.edu/), 
and the Graduate Degree Programs in Ecology (www.colostate.edu/Depts/GDPE/< 
http://www.colostate.edu/Depts/GDPE/Homepage.html&gt;), in Cell and Molecular 
Biology (http://www.colostate.edu/Depts/CMB/) and in Molecular, Cellular 
and Integrative Neuroscience (http://mcin.colostate.edu< 
http://mcin.colostate.edu/&gt;/). The Department also plays a major role in 
entry-level instruction in the biological sciences through the Life-core 
set of courses-the Chair of Biology serves as one member of the Advisory 
Committee for this program. For more information about CSU in general and 
the Biology Department in particular, please visit the Biology Department 
website: http://www.colostate.edu/Depts/Biology/. 
RESPONSIBILITIES: The Department Chair serves as the chief administrative 
officer of the department and is appointed by the Dean of Natural Sciences. 
 With the aid of appropriate departmental committees, the Chair institutes 
recommendations for appointments, promotion, contract renewal, tenure, 
salary increases, and dismissals; manages the department budget and 
teaching assignments; and is the direct liaison between the department and 
the university administration. The Chair is expected to provide dynamic 
leadership conducive to excellence in research, instruction, and outreach. 
 As chief representative of the department, the Chair is expected to be an 
individual of demonstrated scholarship, actively engaged in research, who 
effectively represents the department to the university and the Biology 
community at large. 
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: The Department Chair should have a proven record of 
excellence in research and teaching, and evidence of effective leadership. 
 Candidates must have earned a Ph.D. in Biology or an allied field and be 
eligible to hold the rank of Full Professor at a Carnegie RU/VH institution. 
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: It is essential that the Chair have the ability 
to communicate effectively with members of the department, administrative 
officials, students, and other members of the university community. The 
Department Chair should be engaged in an active research program, and have 
interest in participating in undergraduate and/or graduate instruction and 
outreach. 
EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS: This is a twelve-month, full-time position. Salary 
and other forms of support will be commensurate with qualifications. 
SELECTION PROCEDURE: All completed applications will be screened and 
evaluated by the Search Committee, with input solicited from the faculty, 
staff, and students in the Department of Biology. A list of candidates 
that the Committee regards as best qualified for the position will be 
presented to the Dean, who will make the final selection. 
DATES AND RECORDS: The Chair position will be available as early as July 1, 
2013. For full consideration, complete applications must be received by 
November 15, 2012. 
To apply: combine into one pdf document these four documents: a letter of 
intent, statement of leadership experience and skills pertaining to 
research, teaching, and outreach, a current curriculum vitae (CV), 
statement of research accomplishments and future directions, and list of 
professional peers who can serve as references. Submit this document via: 
http://cns.natsci.colostate.edu/employment/BiologyChair 
Application materials, including letters of recommendation of semifinalist 
candidates will be made available for review by the Biology Faculty. 
 Additional inquiries should be addressed to: 
Professor P. Shing Ho, Chair 
Biology Chair Search Committee 
College of Natural Sciences Colorado State University 
Fort Collins, CO 80523-1801 
Email: Shing.Ho@ColoState.edu<mailto:Shing.Ho@ColoState.edu> 
Colorado State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, age, 
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, gender, disability, 
veteran status, genetic information, sexual orientation, or gender identity 
or expression. Colorado State University is an equal opportunity/equal 
access/affirmative action employer fully committed to achieving a diverse 
workforce and complies with all Federal and Colorado State laws, 
regulations, and executive orders regarding non-discrimination and 
affirmative action. The Office of Equal Opportunity is located in 101 
Student Services. 
Colorado State University is committed to providing a safe and productive 
learning and living community. To achieve that goal, we conduct background 
investigations for all final candidates being considered for employment. 
Background checks may include, but are not limited to, criminal history, 
national sex offender search and motor vehicle history. 
