Plant Evolutionary Biologist 
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR, TENURE-TRACK 
Department of Biology 
Colorado State University 

POSITION: The Department of Biology at Colorado State University (Fort 
Collins, Colorado) is recruiting a Plant Evolutionary Biologist at the rank 
of Assistant Professor. We seek a creative and broadly trained plant 
biologist who addresses fundamental and integrative questions in 
evolutionary biology. Examples of research interests include adaptation, 
bioinformatics, conservation biology, evolution of morphology and life 
histories, evolutionary ecology, genomics, hybridization, invasive species, 
mating systems, molecular evolution, population genetics, and speciation. 
This tenure-track position involves undergraduate and graduate teaching 
(approximately 45 percent), research involving undergraduates and graduate 
students (approximately 45 percent), and service/outreach (approximately 10 
percent). Colorado State University (CSU) provides a highly collaborative 
and supportive environment with opportunities to interact with faculty in 
other colleges on campus including those studying evolution ( 
http://www.evolution.colostate.edu/) and to participate in the Program in 
Molecular Plant Biology (http://plant.biology.colostate.edu/), the Graduate 
Degree Program in Ecology (www.colostate.edu/Depts/GDPE/< 
http://www.colostate.edu/Depts/GDPE/Homepage.html&gt;), and the Graduate 
Degree Program in Cell and Molecular Biology ( 
http://www.colostate.edu/Depts/CMB/). CSU is also home of the CSU Herbarium 
(http://herbarium.biology.colostate.edu/), Natural Resource Ecology 
Laboratory (http://www.nrel.colostate.edu/), and Plant Growth Facilities ( 
http://plantgrowthfacilities.colostate.edu/). Associated with the 
university are the Central Plains Experimental Range ( 
http://sgslter.colostate.edu/ars/default.asp) and the National Center for 
Genetic Resources Preservation ( 
http://www.ars.usda.gov/Main/site_main.htm?modecode=54-02-05-00). For more 
information about CSU in general and the Department of Biology in 
particular, please visit the departmental website: 
http://www.biology.colostate.edu/. 

This new position complements a cluster hiring in Bioinformatics and 
Computational Biology launched in the College of Natural Sciences. As part 
of this effort, the Department of Biology, the Department of Computer 
Sciences, and the Department of Statistics are conducting independent 
faculty searches. Information about those positions can be found at: 
http://www.biology.colostate.edu/employment/, 
http://www.cs.colostate.edu/cstop/csdepartment/csemployment.php, and 
http://www.stat.colostate.edu/statdepartment/statemployment.html. 

RESPONSIBILITIES: The successful candidate will be expected to develop an 
extramurally funded and innovative research program that complements 
(rather than replicates) existing strengths of the department in 
evolutionary ecology, genomics, and systematics. This position involves 
both undergraduate and graduate teaching in the successful candidate's area 
of expertise and the department's core curriculum. 

QUALIFICATIONS: Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Biology or an allied field 
by the time of their application and a research program in plant 
evolutionary biology with publications in peer-reviewed journals. 
Postdoctoral experience and evidence of successful grant writing are 
preferred. 

EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS: This is a nine-month, full-time position. Salary and 
start-up funds will be commensurate with education and experience at the 
rank of Assistant Professor. 

DATES AND RECORDS: The plant-evolutionary-biologist position will be 
available as early as August 15, 2013. For full consideration, complete 
applications must be received by December 3, 2012. 

To apply: combine into one pdf file these four documents: a cover letter, a 
current curriculum vitae (CV), and separate statements of research and 
teaching interests. The cover letter should explicitly state how the 
applicant's research program will complement existing strengths of the 
department in evolutionary ecology, genomics, and systematics. The research 
statement should demonstrate the applicant's creativity in addressing 
fundamental questions in plant evolutionary biology. Submit this pdf file 
via: http://cns.natsci.colostate.edu/employment/BioPE/. Also upload pdf 
files of up to three representative publications and/or in-press 
manuscripts. Three letters of reference must be provided. Applicants 
should provide names and contact information online for three references as 
soon as possible to allow references time to submit letters by December 3, 
2012. References will be sent instructions by e-mail for submitting letters 
online by the target date. 

Application materials of finalist candidates, including letters of 
reference, will be made available for review by the entire faculty of the 
Department of Biology. 

DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY: The Department of Biology at Colorado State 
University is one of eight departments in the College of Natural Sciences. 
The Department has a strong commitment to undergraduate and graduate 
teaching, as well as excellence in research supported by >$30 million 
dollars in active grants. The Department is home to about 1,450 
undergraduate majors, 80 graduate students, 25 postdoctoral fellows, and 29 
regular faculty members. 

UNIVERSITY AND LOCAL ENVIRONMENT: Colorado State University, which has a 
total enrollment of over 26,500 full-time students, is located in Fort 
Collins, 60 miles north of Denver. The community of about 140,000 is 
situated along the beautiful front range of the Rocky Mountains. Other 
major employers in the community are Hewlett-Packard, LSI Logic, Celestica, 
Agilent Technologies, Advanced Energy, Anheuser-Busch, and Poudre Valley 
Hospital. There are also many state and federal research agencies in Fort 
Collins that contribute to the intellectual environment of the university. 
The University of Colorado at Boulder, the University of Colorado at 
Denver, the University of Denver, and the University of Wyoming in Laramie 
are all within a one-hour drive. In addition to the many and varied 
cultural activities sponsored by the university, the community offers a 
center for performing arts, a symphony orchestra, repertory theater, choral 
society, and dance company. The city operates an indoor Olympic-size pool 
and two ice arenas, other indoor pools, five public golf courses, and 
sponsors, through its Parks and Recreation Department, a cornucopia of 
leisure-time activities. Rocky Mountain National Park and Roosevelt 
National Forest are within 30 miles of Fort Collins. Fort Collins has an 
excellent school district and is considered one of the best places in the 
U.S. to raise a family. Finally, Fort Collins is a perennial in the top 10 
best places to live. 
Colorado State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, age, 
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, gender, disability, 
veteran status, genetic information, sexual orientation, or gender identity 
or expression. Colorado State University is an equal opportunity/equal 
access/affirmative action employer fully committed to achieving a diverse 
workforce and complies with all Federal and Colorado State laws, 
regulations, and executive orders regarding non-discrimination and 
affirmative action. The Office of Equal Opportunity is located in 101 
Student Services. 

Colorado State University is committed to providing a safe and productive 
learning and living community. To achieve that goal, we conduct background 
investigations for all final candidates being considered for employment. 
Background checks may include, but are not limited to, criminal history, 
national sex offender search and motor vehicle history. 
