BIOINFORMATICS/COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY 
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR, TENURE-TRACK 
Department of Biology 
Colorado State University 

POSITION: The Department of Biology at Colorado State University (Fort 
Collins, Colorado) is recruiting a biologist advancing areas of 
bioinformatics or computational biology for a tenure track position at the 
rank of ASSISTANT PROFESSOR. Relevant areas of interest include (but are 
not limited to) epigenomics, evolutionary genomics, metagenomics, molecular 
or physiological imaging, systems biology, or synthetic biology. This is 
one of three positions in a cluster hire in Bioinformatics and 
Computational Biology launched in the College of Natural Sciences. As part 
of this effort, the Department of Computer Sciences and the Department of 
Statistics are also conducting independent faculty searches. Information 
about those positions can be found at: 
http://www.cs.colostate.edu/cstop/csdepartment/csemployment.php 
http://www.stat.colostate.edu/statdepartment/statemployment.html 

DEPARTMENT: The Department of Biology at Colorado State University (CSU) is 
one of eight departments in the College of Natural Sciences. The Department 
has a strong commitment to undergraduate and graduate teaching, as well as 
excellence in research supported by more than $30 million dollars in active 
grants. The Department is home to about 1,450 undergraduate majors, 80 
graduate students, 25 postdoctoral fellows, and 29 regular faculty members. 
Research interests range from molecules to ecosystems. For more information 
about the Department, please visit: http://www.biology.colostate.edu/. 

RESPONSIBILITIES: This tenure-track position involves research (45 
percent), undergraduate and graduate teaching (45 percent), and 
service/outreach (10 percent). The successful candidate will be expected to 
develop an extramurally funded and innovative research program. The 
position involves training PhD- and MS-level graduate students, as well as 
teaching undergraduate and graduate courses in the candidate's area of 
expertise and in the department's core curriculum. 

QUALIFICATIONS: Applicants must have a Ph.D. by the time of their 
application and a research program in bioinformatics or computational 
biology with publications in peer-reviewed journals. Postdoctoral 
experience and evidence of successful grant writing are preferred. 

EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS: This is a nine-month, full-time position. Salary and 
start-up funds will be commensurate with education and experience at the 
rank of Assistant Professor. 

DATES AND RECORDS: The bioinformatics / computational biology position will 
be available as early as August 15, 2013. For full consideration, complete 
applications must be received by December 3, 2012. 

To apply, combine the following four documents into one pdf file: a cover 
letter, a current curriculum vitae (C.V.), and separate statements of 
research and teaching interests. Submit this pdf file via: 
http://cns.natsci.colostate.edu/employment/BioInformatics/. Also upload pdf 
files of up to three representative publications and/or in-press 
manuscripts. Three letters of reference must be provided. Applicants 
should provide names and contact information online for three references as 
soon as possible to allow references time to submit letters by the full 
consideration deadline indicated above. References will receive 
instructions by e-mail for submitting letters online. 

Application materials, including letters of reference, of finalist 
candidates will be made available for review by the entire faculty of the 
Department of Biology. 

Inquiries concerning the position should be addressed to: 
Deborah M. Garrity, Associate Professor & Bioinformatics /Computational 
Biology 
                Search Chair 

E-mail: bio_searchchair@colostate.edu<mailto:bio_searchchair@colostate.edu> 


Inquiries concerning the application should be addressed to: 
                Debra DeVilbiss, Office Manager & Bioinformatics 
/Computational Biology Search Staff 
                E-mail: bio_searchstaff@colostate.edu 

INTERDISCIPLINARY DEGREE PROGRAMS AT CSU: CSU provides a highly dynamic and 
interactive environment with opportunities to collaborate with faculty 
across the campus via several interdisciplinary graduate programs, 
including: the Cell and Molecular Biology Graduate Degree Program ( 
http://www.colostate.edu/Depts/CMB/), the Molecular, Cellular and 
Integrative Neurosciences Program (http://mcin.colostate.edu/), the School 
of Biomedical Engineering Program (http://www.engr.colostate.edu/bep/), the 
Program in Molecular Plant Biology (http://plant.biology.colostate.edu/), 
and the Graduate Degree Program in Ecology (www.colostate.edu/Depts/GDPE/< 
http://www.colostate.edu/Depts/GDPE/Homepage.html&gt;). 

UNIVERSITY AND LOCAL ENVIRONMENT: Colorado State University has a total 
enrollment of more than 26,000 full-time students. The campus is located in 
Fort Collins, a city of 140,000 residents 60 miles north of Denver along 
the beautiful front range of the Rocky Mountains. Other major employers in 
the community are Hewlett-Packard, LSI Logic, Celestica, Agilent 
Technologies, Advanced Energy, Kodak, Anheuser-Busch, and Poudre Valley 
Hospital. There are also several state and federal research agencies in 
Fort Collins that contribute to the intellectual environment of the 
university. The University of Colorado in Boulder, the University of 
Colorado Denver | Anschutz Medical Campus, and the University of Wyoming in 
Laramie are all within a one-hour drive. In addition to the many and varied 
cultural activities sponsored by the university, the community offers a 
center for performing arts, a symphony orchestra, repertory theater, choral 
society, and dance company. Rocky Mountain National Park and Roosevelt 
National Forest are within 30 miles of Fort Collins. Fort Collins has an 
excellent school system, and is consistently ranked in the Top 10 best 
places to live [http://www.fcgov.com/visitor/awards.php]. 

Colorado State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, age, 
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, gender, disability, 
veteran status, genetic information, sexual orientation, or gender identity 
or expression. Colorado State University is an equal opportunity/equal 
access/affirmative action employer fully committed to achieving a diverse 
workforce and complies with all Federal and Colorado State laws, 
regulations, and executive orders regarding non-discrimination and 
affirmative action. The Office of Equal Opportunity is located in 101 
Student Services. 

Colorado State University is committed to providing a safe and productive 
learning and living community. To achieve that goal, we conduct background 
investigations for all final candidates being considered for employment. 
Background checks may include, but are not limited to, criminal history, 
national sex offender search and motor vehicle history. 
