ROYAL HOLLOWAY
University of London
 
School of Biological Sciences
                                                            Centre for Plant Molecular Sciences
 
Full time Postdoctoral Research Associate (ref X1108/4658) 
The pro rata salary in the range of £ £26,286 - £30,973 inclusive of London Allowance
Applications are invited for one post for the research project “Establish the link 
between Jasmonate Signalling and Cell Cycle” in the group of Dr. Alessandra 
Devoto.
 
This is a full-time position. The appointment will be for 16 months and is available from 
early January 2009. Prior experience of molecular and cell biology as well as microarray 
analysis would be an advantage.
 
In this BBSRC funded project in a targeted approach, a combination of molecular biology 
with physiological, biochemical and cell biology approaches will be used to establish the 
role of JA signalling components in cell cycle in Arabidopsis. In a functional genomics 
approach we will also investigate the role of cell cycle regulators in JA-mediated stress 
and development.
 
Informal enquires to Alessandra Devoto are welcome Alessandra.Devoto@rhul.ac.uk; tel 
+44(0)1784 443184. 
 
Further details and an application form are available from the Personnel Department, 
Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham, Surrey TW20 0EX; tel: 01784 414241; 
fax: 01784 473527; email: recruitment@rhul.ac.uk . Please quote the relevant reference 
number.
 
The closing date for the receipt of applications is midday Monday 22 December.
 
We positively welcome applications from all sections of the community
 
Unfortunately the time and cost involved means that it is not possible to acknowledge 
each application but if you require an acknowledgement please include a stamped 
addressed envelope. Only short listed candidates will be notified of the outcome of their 
applications; if you have not heard within six weeks of the closing date please assume 
that you have not been successful on this occasion.
 

