Post-Doc Positions Available - University of Georgia, Athens, USA 
 
 
 
1. Genetic Analysis of Switchgrass, a Bioenergy Crop 
 
A 3-year postdoctoral position is available to work on a DOE-funded project 
to enhance our understanding of the genetics of switchgrass, Panicum 
virgatum.  Switchgrass is a grass native to the USA and has many 
characteristics which make it suitable for development as a bioenergy crop. 
It is currently bred and grown for forage.  Nevertheless, very little is 
known about the genetics of switchgrass.  Switchgrass is predominantly 
tetraploid or octoploid, depending on the ecotype, and is an outcrossing 
species.  The project will involve marker development, genetic mapping, 
linkage disequilibrium studies, and diversity and association analyses, and 
is part of a larger initiative that focuses on enhancing the bioconversion 
potential of switchgrass. 
 
Individuals interested in the position should send a Curriculum Vitae, 
including the names and contact information for at least three people who 
can provide recommendations, to Katrien M. Devos, Dept. of Crop and Soil 
Sciences and Dept. of Plant Biology, 3111 Miller Plant Sciences, University 
of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602 ( <mailto:kdevos@uga.edu> kdevos@uga.edu).  The 
preferred start date for the position is February 1st 2009.  Salary will be 
commensurate with appropriate experience. Review of applications will start 
on December 22nd and continue until a suitable applicant has been found. 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Genetic Analysis of Foxtail Millet, a Model for Switchgrass 
 
A 3-year postdoctoral position is available to work on a USDA/DOE-funded 
project to develop foxtail millet as a model for switchgrass.  Switchgrass 
is being developed as a bioenergy crop, but its polyploid and largely 
self-incompatible nature will complicate genetic analyses.  Foxtail millet, 
Setaria italica, a food crop grown mainly in Asia, is a close relative of 
switchgrass and has the advantages, at least from a genetic point of view, 
of being diploid and having a small and stable genome.  The foxtail millet 
genome will be sequenced by the DOE-Joint Genome Initiative and a 4X 
sequence is expected to be available by Spring 2009.  A mapping population 
is being developed between Yugu1, the foxtail millet variety selected for 
sequencing, and a S. viridis accession.  S. viridis is the presumed 
progenitor of foxtail millet.  The project will involve sequencing of S. 
viridis using next-generation sequencing technology, comparative analysis of 
the S. italica and S. viridis sequence to identify SNP markers, construction 
of a genetic map and anchoring of the sequence to the genetic map. 
 
Individuals interested in the position should send a Curriculum Vitae, 
including the names and contact information for at least three people who 
can provide recommendations, to Katrien M. Devos, Dept. of Crop and Soil 
Sciences and Dept. of Plant Biology, 3111 Miller Plant Sciences, University 
of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602 ( <mailto:kdevos@uga.edu> kdevos@uga.edu).  The 
preferred start date for the position is February 1st 2009.  Salary will be 
commensurate with appropriate experience. Review of applications will start 
on December 22nd and continue until a suitable applicant has been found.
