4 yr PhD project

Title: Modelling receptor recruitment into different signalling pathways

Coordinator: prof.dr. S.C. de Vries, Laboratory of Biochemistry, Wageningen 
University, the Netherlands.

Signalling processes in eukaryotes require a high degree of robustness in order to perform 
normally despite both internal and external perturbation. Typically, robustness in a signalling 
system is achieved by a network organized in a so-called hour-glass structure where multiple 
inputs are channelled through a common core system. The Arabidopsis receptor-like kinase 
SERK3(BAK1) was previously identified as a non-ligand binding co-receptor of the main plant 
steroid hormone (brassinolide) perceiving receptor BRI1. Recently it was shown that SERK3 
also functions in plant cell death control and in plant innate immunity. Because these last two 
pathways appear independent of brassinolides this suggests that the concept of robust 
signalling networks employing hour-glass structures is also used in Arabidopsis. This raises 
the question how the available SERK3 receptors are distributed over the diverse pathways. 
We propose to integrate existing and novel molecular, biochemical and genetic parameters 
into a testable mathematical model to answer whether a pool of free SERK3 exists that can 
be mobilized upon selective activation of the associating main receptors or, alternatively, pre-
assembly results in multiple SERK3-containing complexes present in the same cells. 
Preliminary biochemical data suggest that both situations co-exist. The results of this project 
may reveal general principles of receptor recruitment for multiple purposes, a now generally 
recognized phenomenon.

The candidate should have a completed academic curriculum in biomolocular sciences or 
equivalent curricula with a proven interest and experience in mathematical procedures to 
describe biochemical processes.
We offer you a full-time position for a period of one year with a possibility of extension for 3 
years. Gross salary per month € 2000 in the first year rising to € 2558 per month in the fourth 
year.
After succesful completion of the thesis a PhD will be awarded at Wageningen University, the 
Netherlands.

Biochemistry (www.bic.wur.nl) is the scientific discipline in which the study of the function of 
proteins is the central theme. Our research is focused on how proteins fold, work and finally 
die inside the cell itself, in short Cellular Biochemistry. Topics are signaling processes in 
plants that underly the perception of plant steroid hormones (brassinosteroids) and the 
formation of stem cells in meristems. Other topics are molecular enzymology, protein folding 
and metabolomics. Techniques to study proteins rely heavily on sophisticated bio-analytical 
techniques such as mass spectrometry, NMR and fluorescence spectroscopy. To apply the 
power of modern sophisticated biochemical techniques the Laboratory of Biochemistry is in 
the ideal situation that all state-of-the-art facilities to study proteins are available. Together 
with other laboratories we are host of the WUR Technology Platforms MicroSpectroscopy 
Centre (MSC) and Wageningen NMR Centre (WNMRC). The latest addition is the start-up 
company Biqualys where the new FTMS is installed.

Information and application: 
For more information about the project and applications please contact prof.dr. S.C. de Vries, 
tel +31.317.483866, e-mail sacco.devries@wur.nl.
