Associate in Research Position in Horticultural Genomics and Biotechnology lab at 
WSU
A position for an Associate in Research position is available immediately in the 
Horticultural Genomics and Biotechnology laboratory at Washington State University. 
The incumbent will be self-motivated, proactive and a creative individual who can 
synthesize basic and applied approaches in plant biology research. Our program is 
sequencing the apple genome and uses high-throughput next-generation genomics 
platforms to resolve biological questions in horticultural crops grouped in Rosaceae and 
in grapes. 
The successful candidate will assist the PI in managing the laboratory, and perform 
research in various areas related to genomics, genetics, transcriptomics, computational 
biology and biotechnology. The person will be expected to participate in the laboratory’s 
outreach activities. Excellent organizational and communication skills are required. In 
addition, computer skills for biological data analysis will be considered favorable. 
Familiarity with next-generation sequencing technologies will be advantageous. The 
person is expected to work with an interdisciplinary team and demonstrated ability to 
interact and work collaboratively with others will be considered favorably. 
The selected candidate is expected to design and conduct experiments independently, and 
to help in graduate, undergraduate student training. A MS in plant biology field is 
required. A Ph.D. in Plant Sciences or related discipline is preferred. A candidate with BS 
may be considered only if they have over 7 years of experience in a similar position. 
Good publication record is an advantage. Salary will be commensurate with experience. 
Additional information on horticultural genomics and biotechnology program can be 
found at www.genomics.wsu.edu. Please email your application along with detailed 
curriculum vitae to Dr. Amit Dhingra (Email: adhingra@wsu.edu). Also arrange for three 
letters of reference to be emailed directly to Dr. Dhingra. WSU employs only U.S. 
citizens and lawfully authorized non-U.S. citizens. All new employees must show 
employment eligibility verification as required by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services. AA\EEO\ADA

