Postdoctoral position in auxin regulated polarity and division planes 
Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands 

The Utrecht University-funded 2-year post-doctoral position is available in the newly established 
Dhonukshe lab within the Molecular Genetics Section of the Biology Department headed by Prof. Ben 
Scheres. The Dhonukshe group studies mechanisms driving auxin regulated cell polarity and cell 
division planes in Arabidopsis. 

Our lab focuses on the subcellular mechanisms regulating polarity and division planes with a 
particular emphasis on the role of auxin. We have previously shown that impairment of auxin transport 
influences cell division planes (Dhonukshe et al. BMC Biology 2005). Recently, we have identified the 
mechanisms generating cell polarity (Dhonukshe et al., Nature 2008, Dhonukshe et al., Development 
2010). The post-doctoral fellow is expected to follow up on this recent work using a combination of 
molecular cell biology, microscopy and genetics approaches. 

We are looking for a highly motivated candidate with a strong background in plant molecular biology 
or a related discipline, as demonstrated by publications in international peer-reviewed journals. 
Experience with plant molecular biology and genetics is obligatory. The project is well designed 
based on exciting preliminary data sets and the candidate will have an opportunity to get grip on 
excellent microscopy and cell biology approaches. 

The Dhonukshe lab (website under construction but for reference you can visit the website of the 
Molecular Genetics Section http://www.bio.uu.nl/mg/pd) is situated in the Molecular Genetics Section 
of the Utrecht University, and has direct access to state-of-the-art facilities for microscopy, 
molecular cell and developmental biology. Utrecht University offers a renowned international 
community of scientists in all disciplines of life sciences and interaction between the scientists 
working on plant and other model species is on a regular basis. Research in our section is embedded 
in the Graduate School of Experimental Plant Sciences and Graduate School of Developmental Biology 
those offer an attractive curriculum of courses and workshops. 

The position is available immediately. Applications will be accepted until the position has been 
filled. Please send inquiries for information or your application, including motivation letter, CV 
and contact information for 2-3 references) to: 

Dr. Pankaj Dhonukshe, E mail. P.B.Dhonukshe@uu.nl , Phone: +31-30-2534318 
