[Arabidopsis] Bioinformatics Position Available at PLEXdb


We are seeking applicants to help refine PLEXdb, the Plant EXpression
Database:

PLEXdb Bioinformaticist (http://www.plexdb.org/modules/PD_general/jobs.php)
Postdoctoral Position
Location: Ames, IA - Iowa State University

Department: Virtual Reality Applications Center, Plant Pathology

Proposed Start Date: As soon as possible

Appointment Conditions: Term, 12 Months, Full Time, Appointment Ending
8/31/2007

Special Conditions: Renewal of appointment for up to three years
contingent upon performance.

Description: PLEXdb (www.plexdb.org) Plant and pathogen microarray
database - is a collaborative project of Iowa State University and NSF to
further develop on-line cyberinfrastructure for the analysis and
interpretation of microarray data. The PLEXdb Bioinformaticist will work
with a small local team of database and web programmers and will be
responsible for developing and maintaining data pipelines for analyzing
microarray data between experiments and across species and building
cross-references to other information (e.g., GO annotation, sequence
assemblies); development and maintenance of online tools for querying,
analyzing, and cross-referencing data in and between experiments and
microarrays; work with data curator to insure conformation to MIAME
standards; communicate with remote investigator groups to ensure that all
relevant biological information from experiments will appear as required
or permitted fields in the database schema.

Required Qualifications: M.S. or Ph.D. in bioinformatics or computer
science; statistics coursework or experience; good written and verbal
communication skills.

Preferred Qualifications: Experience with microarray data analysis systems
and familiarity with MIAME standards for microarray experiments.
Experience with MySQL, PHP, and at least one language similar to Python,
Java, or C.
Salary/Wage: $40,000-48,000, commensurate with experience
Application Deadline: To guarantee consideration, application must be
received by August 31, 2006.

Application Instructions: Send letter of application, resume, curriculum
vitae, and names/phone numbers of references to Julie Dickerson, Associate
Professor, Virtual Reality Applications Center, 2274 Howe Hall, Room 1620,
Ames, IA 50011-2274, or electronically to julied@iastate.edu, please
include PLEXdb in the subject line.
Immigration Reform and Control Act verification will be a condition of
employment. If hired, you must be able to present acceptable documents
that provide proof of your identity and employment eligibility to work in
the United States as required by the Immigration Reform and Control Act of
1986.
Iowa State University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.



-- Julie Dickerson Associate Professor Electrical and Computer Engineering Iowa State University, Ames, IA, USA 