PHD and MSC scholarships in plant stress/disease cell biology In University College 
Dublin, Ireland  
 
Cereals crops represent the most important food source for humans and animals and are a 
growing source of biofuels. The next 50 years will present new challenges for cereal 
production. These challenges include the doubling of the world population, the increased 
use of land for the cultivation of biofuel crops, increases in both temperature and drought 
(climate change), and the increasing need for new methods for plant nutrition and disease 
control, driven by negative environmental impacts of fertilisers and pesticides. In light of 
these challenges, this project focuses on unravelling novel mechanisms involved in wheat 
response to stress and delivering knowledge and tools that can be used to improve crop 
and plant cell productivity. Consequently, it will contribute to our understanding of basic 
plant biology, and to the development of competitive and sustainable means for 
enhancing the productivity of food, feed, biofuel and plant cell cultures (biopharming).  
 
Fusarium fungi that attack wheat can produce a mycotoxin, deoxynivalenol (DON), that 
acts as a disease virulence factors, facilitating Fusarium parasitism of wheat. DON is a 
protein synthesis inhibitor, and causes cell death in eukaryotes. The wheat genome has 
co-evolved with the Fusarium pathogen and its toxic metabolites. We have identified a 
range of wheat genes that are DON responsive and, in exotic wheat germplasm, most are 
associated with the phenotypic resistance to DON-induced bleaching and are located 
within a chromosomal locus that confers resistance to both DON and Fusarium 
pathogens. Three of these genes have been shown to directly contribute to the DON 
resistance of such wheat germplasm (VIGS analysis). One is a novel, evolutionary 
divergent gene. These and other DON-resistance associated genes, offer potential for 
enhancing eukaryotic stress tolerance. Using a combination of gene 
overexpression/silencing studies and a range of analytical and molecular techniques, we 
now want to determine whether the encoded proteins can enhance biotic and abiotic 
stress tolerance in whole plants (wheat) and plant cell cultures (tobacco, Arabidopsis). 
Additionally, we want to characterise novel genes and associated pathways that enhance 
plant stress resistance.  
This proposal draws on the complimentary expertise of an international team of scientists 
in order to deliver on its objectives.  
   
 
WE NOW WISH TO APPOINT A TEAM OF FOUR SCIENTISTS TO THIS 
PROJECT, INCLUDING  
 
¥ A PhD student  
 
¥ An MSc student  
 
Additionally another PHD student (appointed) and postdoctorate will work on this 
project.  
 
   
 
 The PhD student will focus on toxin-responsive genes and conduct research in order to  
 
- Analyse the effect of gene silencing/overexpression on wheat yield, heat tolerance, 
pathogen resistance and herbicide tolerance (four genes)  
 
- Determine the effect of several select DON resistance-associated genes on plant 
programmed cell death  
 
- Localise (at the cellular and tissue level) the proteins encoded by three toxin-responsive 
genes  
 
- Determine the substrate specificity and function of a select stress resistance-associated 
gene  
 
PHD positions will be for a period of four years. The student will complete taught 
courses, in addition to their research activities. They will receive an annual stipend of 
approx. 18000 euro and additionally, European fees will be paid (5500 euros per annum). 
Non-EU students will have to pay an additional non-EU fee (approx. 6000 per annum) 
and the cost of this will have to be borne by the individual.  
 
Minimum requirements for the PhD student:  
 
- A BSc (2:1 or higher) in botany/plant science/microbiology/biochemistry/molecular 
biology/crop science from an internationally reputable institution (completed)  
 
- Substantial molecular biology expertise, including vector construction, RNA/DNA 
analysis, etc.  
 
- Plant biology experience - practical and theoretical  
 
 Desirable requirements for the PhD students:  
 
- A MSc (2:1 or higher) in botany/plant science/microbiology/biochemistry/molecular 
biology/crop science from an internationally reputable institution (completed)  
 
- Experience in monocot research  
 
- Co-authorship of peer-reviewed publications in international journals  
 
- Cell biology or plant transformation experience  
 
   
 
The MSc student will conduct research in order to  
 
¥ Analyse the effect of gene silencing/overexpression on wheat yield, heat tolerance, 
pathogen resistance and herbicide tolerance (2 genes)  
 
¥ Determine the substrate specificity and function of a select stress resistance-associated 
gene  
 
Minimum requirements for the MSc student:  
 
- A BSc (2:1 or higher) in botany/plant science/microbiology/biochemistry/molecular 
biology/crop science from an internationally reputable institution (completed)  
 
- Substantial molecular biology expertise, including vector construction, RNA/DNA 
analysis, etc.  
 
 Desirable requirements for the MSc students:  
 
- Plant biology experience - practical and theoretical  
 
- Experience in monocot research  
 
- Co-authorship of peer-reviewed publications in international journals  
 
- Cell biology or plant transformation experience  
 
 The MSc postion will be for a period of two years. Students will complete taught 
courses, in addition to their research activities. They will receive an annual stipend of 
approx. 18000 euro and additionally, fees will be paid (5500 euros per annum). Non-EU 
students will have to pay an additional non-EU fee (approx. 6000 per annum) and the cost 
of this will have to be borne by the individual.  
 
   
 
APPLICANTS SHOULD SEND  
 
- Their CV  
 
- A letter of interest, with reference to the required and mandatory skills outlined above  
 
- Evidence of qualifications  
 
- Where appropriate, evidence of proficiency in english  
 
- To fiona.doohan@ucd.ie  
 
   
 
This is an open call and positions will be filled pending the Positions will remain open 
until filled but it is expected to recruit students as soon as possible.
