Poplar biofuels: Postdoctoral positions in bioinformatics, genomics, 
molecular biology, and biochemistry 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver BC, Canada 
 
Six postdoctoral positions in bioinformatics, genomics, molecular biology, 
and biochemistry are available as part of a recently funded Genome British 
Columbia Applied Genomics Innovation Program (AGIP) project ³Optimized 
Populus feedstocks and novel enzyme systems for a British Columbia bioenergy 
sector². Positions will be for two to three years, starting in the Fall of 
2008, and will be located at the University of British Columbia. 
 
This multi-investigator project is centered at the University of British 
Columbia  (Departments of Botany, Wood Science, Forest Sciences, the Centre 
for Plant Research, and the Michael Smith Laboratories), with collaborators 
at the University of Victoria, and the support of technology platforms at 
the Vancouver Genome Sciences Centre, Prostate Centre Microarray Facility, 
and Centre for Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics (CMMT). International 
collaborators include the US Department of Energy, USDA Forest Service, and 
Umea Plant Science Center. 
 
If interested, please forward a cover letter indicating the  position you 
are interested in, a CV, and the names of three references via email with 
the subject ³AGIP Biofuels Position² to: 
 
Carl Douglas, Project Leader 
AGIP Biofuels 
Department of Botany 
University of British Columbia 
Vancouver BC V6T 1Z4 
CANADA 
E-mail: cdouglas@interchange.ubc.ca 
 
Postdoctoral Fellow position - Bioinformatics for population genomics 
As part of a team investigating the variation in natural populations of the 
completely sequenced model tree Populus trichocarpa (with particular 
reference to cellulosic biofuel traits), you will pioneer whole genome SNP 
discovery using massive parallel sequencing (Solexa) data. You will 
coordinate the assembly of short read data by bioinformatics staff at the 
Genome Sciences Centre, Vancouver. You will be responsible, together with 
the project database bioinformatician, for pipelining and databasing the 
SNPs. You will also be responsible for analytical work on the SNP variation 
patterns, including detection of the signature of selection and QTN 
detection, and for targeting 6000 SNPs of interest for expanded sampling 
using Illumina SNP detection platforms. The position represents a superb 
opportunity to work at the leading edge of population genomics and your work 
will underpin a major tree biology project. Experience with one or more of 
the following would be an advantage: next generation sequencing, short read 
assembly, perl programming, database management, statistical genetics, SNP 
detection assays and selection detection algorithms. 
 
Postdoctoral Fellow - Massive parallel sequencing, SNP detection and 
association genetics. 
As part of a team investigating the variation in natural populations of the 
completely sequenced model tree Populus trichocarpa (with particular 
reference to cellulosic biofuel traits), you will be responsible for the 
genome resequencing of trees from natural populations using chip-capture 
technology and Solexa sequencing. Your data will be analyzed and pipelined 
by bioinformatics colleagues. You will also be responsible for large-scale 
SNP assays involving >6000 SNPs and hundreds of trees using the Illumina 
Golden Gate system, and in collaborating with phenotypers and 
bioinformaticians to perform large scale association analyses with an 
extensive range of phenotypic traits. You will have access to 
state-of-the-art genomics platforms at the Vancouver Genome Sciences Centre 
and at the Centre for Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics. The project 
offers the chance to work at the forefront of connecting genome and 
phenotype in forest trees. Experience with some or all of the following 
would be advantageous: RNA purification, microarray technology, SNP 
detection assays, population genetics. 
 
Three Postdoctoral Fellow positions   candidate gene discovery and analysis 
As part of a team investigating the variation in natural populations of the 
completely sequenced model tree Populus trichocarpa (with particular 
reference to cellulosic biofuel traits), you will be responsible for 
performing experiments to study Populus candidate genes that may be 
important in controlling secondary cell wall development and biochemistry. 
You will work with a bioinformatics team and use genome sequence 
information, expression profiling data, biological and mutant data, and 
phylogenetic analyses to identify candidate genes for further study in 
Populus. You will carry our a range of experiments in Populus including 
mis-expression in transgenic trees, expression profiling, and study of 
recombinant proteins to define the biological roles of these genes in 
secondary wall development. Experience in some or all of the following would 
be advantageous: molecular biology and genetics, biochemistry, RNA isolation 
and qRT-PCR, plant transformation, microarray technology. 
 
 
Postdoctoral Fellow position   metabolic profiling and secondary cell wall 
biochemistry 
As part of a team investigating the variation in natural populations of the 
completely sequenced model tree Populus trichocarpa (with particular 
reference to cellulosic biofuel traits), you will be responsible for 
carrying out biochemical and metabolic analyses of the wood and secondary 
cell walls from natural and genetically modified Populus variants. This work 
will be carried out will the help and collaboration of team members working 
on the molecular biology of secondary wall formation in Populus, and 
international collaborators. Work will be carried out using state-of-the art 
analytical facilities in the Department of Wood Science at UBC. Familiarity 
and expertise in analytical biochemistry is required, with expertise in wood 
chemistry and metabolic profiling advantageous 
 
Postdoctoral Fellow position   adaptive and biomass trait phenotyping 
As part of a team investigating the variation in natural populations of the 
completely sequenced model tree Populus trichocarpa (with particular 
reference to cellulosic biofuel traits), you will be responsible for 
obtaining phenotypic data on physiological traits related to adaptation and 
biomass productivity of trees from natural populations, as expressed in 
common garden and controlled environment experiments. These data will be 
analyzed with respect to the provenance of the genotypes (latitude, 
rainfall, elevation) and, in collaboration with other team members, related 
to population structure and tested for associations with SNP genotypes of 
candidate genes. Experience with some or all of the following would be 
advantageous: measurement of A/Ci curves by infra-red gas analysis, 
chlorophyll fluorescence, stable carbon and/or nitrogen isotope 
discrimination, hydroponics, water relations and frost hardiness assessment. 
 
Postdoctoral Fellow  Wood rot fungi expression profiling 
As part of a team investigating the variation in natural populations of the 
completely sequenced model tree Populus trichocarpa (with particular 
reference to cellulosic biofuel traits), you will be responsible for 
carrying out studies on gene expression of wood rot fungi with completely 
sequenced genomes using microarray technology. This work will be carried out 
collaboratively with partners in the US, with the objective of understanding 
the nature of cell wall degrading systems deployed by these fungi, and the 
discovery of potential novel enzymes and enzyme complexes that could be 
deployed to efficiently de-construct Populus feedstocks of varying wood 
chemistry prior to fermentation of released sugars. Experience in some or 
all of the following would be advantageous: molecular biology, RNA isolation 
and qRT-PCR, transformation, microarray technology, fungal biology.
