University of British Columbia 
Department of Botany 
Assistant Professor, Plant Cell/Molecular Biology 

The Department of Botany at the University of British Columbia invites 
applications for a tenure track Assistant Professor position starting July 
1, 2011. We seek outstanding applicants who address fundamental research 
questions in plant, algal, or fungal biology using cellular, molecular, 
genetic, genomic and/or proteomic approaches in areas such as physiology, 
cell biology, biochemistry, signaling, epigenetics, and development. In 
addition to pursuing an internationally recognized research program, the 
successful candidate will be committed to excellence in the teaching of both 
undergraduate and graduate students. Applicants must have a PhD and 
preferably postdoctoral experience. Salary will be commensurate with 
experience. 
Responsibilities include establishing and conducting an internationally 
competitive, externally funded, research program, teaching at the 
undergraduate and graduate levels, supervising graduate students and 
performing service duties for the department, university, and 
academic/scientific community. 
Applicants should submit a single pdf file including a cover letter, 
curriculum vitae, research and teaching interests, and up to four 
publications to http://www.hr.ubc.ca/careers/faculty_postings.html. Evidence 
of teaching effectiveness would be an asset. In addition, three confidential 
reference letters should be sent as pdf files to jobs.botany@ubc.ca. 
Screening of applications will begin November 1, 2010. All qualified persons 
are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and permanent residents of 
Canada will be given priority. 

UBC is strongly committed to diversity within its community and especially 
welcomes applications from visible minority group members, women, Aboriginal 
persons, persons with disabilities, persons of any sexual orientation or 
gender identity, and others who may contribute to the further 
diversification of ideas. 

For queries regarding the position: Contact Carl Douglas (Chair, Plant 
Cell/Molecular Biology Search Committee) at cdouglas@interchange.ubc.ca 
