Division of Biological Sciences
University of California San Diego
Plant Systems Biology Faculty Recruitment

The Division of Biological Sciences invites applications for a new tenure-track faculty position in 
Plant systems biology with a strong preference for the rank of Assistant Professor.  Candidates 
pursuing innovative research in areas including, but not limited to, signaling, growth and 
development, plant-microbe interactions, natural variation, and comparative and quantitative genomics 
are encouraged to apply. The Division of Biological Sciences at UC San Diego 
(http://biology.ucsd.edu/index.html) is committed to academic excellence and diversity within the 
faculty, staff, and student body.

The successful candidate is expected to have a broad interest in their chosen field, and to 
complement existing strengths in the Division of Biological Science. All candidates must have 
earned a Ph.D., M.D., or equivalent degree, and have demonstrated excellence and creativity in 
research and scholarship.  The successful candidate is also expected to participate in the graduate 
and undergraduate teaching curricula.  Preference will be given to candidates with experience in 
equity and diversity with respect to: teaching, mentoring, research, life experiences, or service 
towards building an equitable and diverse scholarly environment.  The level of appointment will be 
commensurate with qualifications and experience. Start-up funds will be provided to establish a 
competitive research program, and salary will be based upon the University of California pay scale.

Complete applications received by November 1, 2010, will be assured of consideration.  Interested 
applicants must submit cover letter, curriculum vitae, a statement of research, a statement of 
teaching, contact information for 3-5 references and a personal summary statement describing their 
past experience and leadership in equity and diversity and/or their potential to make future 
contributions in the field. Applications must be submitted through the University of California San 
Diego's Academic Personnel RECRUIT System at https://apol-recruit.ucsd.edu/. Further details about 
the required application material can be found at: http://biology.ucsd.edu/jobs/ladder_info.html.





