Postdoctoral position in plant electrophysiology 
 
Starting date: upon agreement 
Work place: University of Lausanne, Department of Plant Molecular Biology and 
Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology 
 
Profile wanted: 
Applicants must have a doctorate in a related field, extensive experience in 
electrophysiology (animal or plant), and an interest in plant physiology 
 
Description of research topic and environment: 
A postdoctoral position is available for research on the roles of electrical signaling in 
the wound response in the plant model Arabidopsis. The work involves collaboration 
between the dedicated electrophysiology laboratory  
of Stephan Kellenberger (http://www.unil.ch/dpt/page61353_en.html) 
and a laboratory studying the molecular genetics of the wound response in Arabidopsis 
(Edward Farmer; http://www.unil.ch/dbmv/page8006_en.html). The Farmer laboratory 
has recently found fast biochemical responses to wounding that may be initiated by ion 
fluxes (J. Biol. Chem. 284, 34506). In addition a gain-of-function ion channel mutant 
identified in the laboratory mimics the wound response (Plant J. 49, 889). We seek 
someone to conduct electrophysiology experiments on intact plants (primarily 
intracellular recordings). One aim of the project is to test whether electrical activity is 
critical in the wound response. This multidisciplinary project is situated in the vibrant 
Lausanne biomedical research community. Lausanne and nearby Geneva offer a superb 
lakeside environment.  
 
Application: 
Applications, including the names of three referees should be addressed by email to 
Stephan Kellenberger or to Edward Farmer. A publication record in 
electrophysiology is essential and we will only reply to applicants with such 
publications.  
 
Contact addresses: 
Dr. S. Kellenberger, Département de Pharmacologie et de Toxicologie, UNIL, Rue du 
Bugnon 27, CH-1005 Lausanne, tel. ++4121 692 5422, Stephan.Kellenberger@unil.ch 
 
Prof. E. Farmer, Department of Plant Molecular Biology, UNIL, Bâtiment Biophore, 
1015 Lausanne, tel. ++4121 692 4228, edward.farmer@unil.ch Note: Ted Farmer will be on 
sabbatical starting sept 1st. To assure a prompt response please contact Dr Kellenberger. 
