KAUST (King Abdullah University of Science and Technology) 

FACULTY POSITIONS: Plant Epigenetics and Signaling 

The Biological and Environmental Sciences and Engineering (BESE) Division 
at King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), in 
collaboration with the Center for Desert Agriculture seeks exceptional 
applicants trained in plant molecular genetics with research interests in 
the mechanisms underlying perception of and heritable adaptation to biotic 
and abiotic stress. This position is open at levels from Associate to Full 
Professor. 

All candidates should have the ability to pursue a high impact research 
program and have a commitment to teaching at the graduate level. Applicants 
should apply at the http://bese.kaust.edu.sa employment site. Applications 
received by March 1, 2013 will receive full consideration and positions 
will remain open until filled. 

About the BESE Division and KAUST 
The Biological and Environmental Science and Engineering (BESE) Division is 
an enabling platform and intellectual space for knowledge and advanced 
technology in the field of Adaptive Biology and Environmental Systems. 
Access to the some of the most advanced equipment in the world for 
genomics, proteomics, epigenetics, advanced microscopy, structural biology, 
and nanofabrication studies, as well as access to the Red Sea, provides 
KAUST researchers with unique opportunities. This, combined with the 
University's cutting edge Research Centers and experimental laboratories, 
enables research unconstrained by physical resources to address fundamental 
issues in biology and environmental sciences. More information about the 
BESE academic programs and research activities are available at 
http://bese.kaust.edu.sa. 

King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) is an 
international, graduate research university dedicated to advancing science 
and technology through interdisciplinary research, education, and 
innovation. Located on the shores of the Red Sea in Saudi Arabia, KAUST 
offers superb research facilities, generous assured research funding, and 
internationally competitive salaries, attracting top international faculty, 
scientists, engineers, and students to conduct fundamental and 
goal-oriented research to address the world's pressing scientific and 
technological challenges related to the sustainability of water, food, 
energy, and the environment. www.kaust.edu.sa 
