Postdoctoral position: *Next-gen Sequence Data Analysis of Plant Genomes* 

A postdoctoral research position in plant bioinformatics is available in 
the *Plant Cytogenomics research group at CEITEC, Masaryk University, 
Brno, Czech Republic* (odkaz do nového oknawww.ceitec.muni.cz 
<http://www.ceitec.muni.cz/&gt;). The focus of the laboratory is 
comparative and evolutionary cytogenomics in species and plant groups 
with contrasting genome features and well-documented phylogenetic 
frameworks. The research concentrates on understanding (1) the role of 
chromosome rearrangements in speciation, (2) the impact of whole-genome 
duplication events on genome structure and cladogenesis, and on (3) the 
evolutionary dynamics and chromosome organisation of repetitive elements. 

We are seeking an enthusiastic and motivated junior researcher in the 
field of *next-generation sequence data analysis of plant genomes*. The 
candidate should have experience with the analysis of next-generation 
sequencing data in diverse areas, such as: transcriptome analysis, 
genome annotation and assembly, chromosome breakpoints, comparative 
multispecies alignment etc. You will propose new scientific projects and 
participate in infrastructure improvements. A good publication record 
and experience in the preparation of scientific manuscripts and reports 
are expected. Sound knowledge of plant biology (e.g. molecular biology, 
phylogenetics or cytogenetics) is a plus. You are expected to work 
autonomously but also in collaboration with other team members, to guide 
and supervise researchers and students. You will have excellent 
communication skills and speak English fluently. 

The position is available from 07/2012. Later appointment is negotiable. 

This is a three-year appointment that may be renewed or converted to a 
permanent position. 

For further information please contact Dr M. A. Lysak, email: 
lysak@sci.muni.cz. 

CV including the list of publications should be sent electronically to 
*recruitment@ceitec.muni.cz* by April, 28, 2012. Detailed information 
about the Central European Institute of Technology can be found at: 
odkaz do nového oknawww.ceitec.eu <http://www.ceitec.eu> 
