Seeking Postdoctoral Scientist 
University of Florida 

Project: Two main research areas: 

1. Functional evaluation of novel, fruit-specific genes in strawberry using 
transgenic plants. This objective will involve generating transgenic 
materials and their analysis. 

2. Evaluation of fruit-specific promoters in transgenic strawberry and via 
agro infiltration of fruits. 

Both projects are significantly advanced to guarantee a "plug-n-play" 
project initiation. 

When: November 1, 2012, with some flexibility 

Upsides: 1. You'll work with the University of Florida Plant Innovation 
Program, a group of scientists using genomics, molecular biology, 
biochemistry, genetics, breeding, analytical chemistry and human sensory 
profiling to improve fruit characteristics. There will be many 
opportunities for comprehensive training. 

2. We have a rapid transformation system that allows in planta validation 
of gene function and gene discovery. 

3. Projects could easily expand into your own independent research program 
(specialty crops are hot!). 

Downside: This is an industry-funded position and has a duration of one 
year. The contract may be renewed if sufficient progress is made. Both 
our lab and the industry partner are eager to develop a long-standing 
relationship. We seek a talented, high-energy, highly-motivated scientist 
for this position. 

Desired skills: The ideal candidate will be fluent in molecular cloning, 
use of the Gateway system is a plus. Tissue culture and gene expression 
analysis experience is important. Other useful skills will be experience 
in analysis of GC/MS data, evaluation of fruit traits (brix, color, 
firmness, etc), plant physiology and development. Leadership and ability 
to work as part of a team are absolutely required. 

This is a HOT opportunity for someone that wants to position themselves at 
the novel, new edge of gene discovery and application in an emerging model 
specialty crop system.. 

Send a CV and cover letter to Kevin M. Folta, kfolta@ufl.edu<mailto: 
kfolta@ufl.edu> 

