Two postdoctoral positions in the Zipfel group at The Sainsbury Laboratory, 
Norwich, UK 

Two postdoctoral positions are available to study receptor kinase-mediated 
immune signalling in the plant model Arabidopsis thaliana. 

The Sainsbury Laboratory is a charitable company of ~80 research scientists 
and support staff and a world leader in plant science. We are based on the 
Norwich Research Park, funded by the Gatsby Charitable Foundation, and 
closely linked to University of East Anglia and the John Innes Centre. For 
more information visit www.tsl.ac.uk 

The first layer of plant innate immunity relies on the recognition of 
microbes via the perception of pathogen-/microbe-associated molecular 
patterns (PAMPs/MAMPs) by surface localized receptors called pattern 
recognition receptors (PRRs). In the plant model Arabidopsis thaliana, the 
leucine-rich repeat RKs (LRR-RKs) FLS2 and EFR are the PRRs for bacterial 
flagellin (or flg22) and elongation factor Tu (or elf18), respectively. 
Within seconds of PAMP binding, FLS2 and EFR form a ligand-induced complex 
with the regulatory LRR-RK SERK3/BAK1 leading to phosphorylation of both 
proteins. Additional SERKs, such as SERK4/BKK1, are recruited in a 
ligand-dependent manner into EFR and FLS2 protein complexes with different 
preferences. FLS2 (and potentially EFR) also forms a constitutive complex 
with the membrane-associated cytoplasmic kinase BIK1 that get 
phosphorylated in a BAK1-dependent manner upon PAMP binding. BIK1 is a 
positive regulator of most FLS2- and EFR-mediated responses. T! 
 he mechanisms controlling PRR activation at the plasma membrane and 
regulating intracellular signalling remain however largely unknown. 

The laboratory has recently obtained funding to study the phosphorylation 
events occurring within PRR complexes and subsequent signalling events. One 
position is to study the phosphorylation events occurring within PRR 
complexes and their role in initiating immune signalling, while the other 
is to characterize novel Arabidopsis mutants identified through a 
suppressor screen recently performed in the laboratory. 

Candidates should be highly motivated individuals with a PhD degree 
together with a strong background in molecular biology, biochemistry or 
genetics. Previous work on plant/pathogen interactions or Arabidopsis is 
not required, but can be an advantage. Salary will be within the UEA 
Research and Analogous staff Grade 7 scale at between £30,122 and £35,938 
pa; the appointment level will reflect qualifications, skills, knowledge 
and achievements. The positions are offered for 2 years in the first 
instance. 

Applicants should provide a CV, including the names and contact details of 
two referees, and a covering letter addressing the selection criteria. 
 Please send formal applications, quoting the reference number below, 
either by -mail to HR@tsl.ac.uk or by post to Kim Blanchflower, HR Manager, 
The Sainsbury Laboratory, Norwich Research Park, Norwich, NR4 7UH, UK. 

Ref NUMBER CZ11/2012 Closing date 15 Sept 2012 