Head of Proteomics at The Sainsbury Laboratory, Norwich, UK 

The Sainsbury Laboratory (TSL) is seeking a highly motivated individual to 
lead proteomics activities at the Laboratory. This is an exciting 
opportunity for the successful talented candidate to contribute to and 
enhance the world-leading scientific activities of the Laboratory. 

The post holder will be responsible for managing a team providing 
proteomics support to TSL scientists. The key functions of the role will be 
to deliver proteomics and training to TSL scientists, to work closely with 
TSL Group Leaders to apply modern proteomic techniques, and to develop 
cutting-edge methodologies as opportunities arise. The post holder will 
have direct access to world-class facilities available at TSL and across 
collaborative institutes within the Norwich Research Park. A joint 
proteomics platform was established in 2000, which includes: Thermo 
Scientific LTQ- Orbitrap; Waters Synapt G2; Waters TQ-S; Bruker UltraFlex 
MALDI-ToF/ToF; Bruker MicroTOF, and Applied Biosystems QTrap 4000 

The applicant must have extensive hands-on experience of proteomics and 
must have a PhD degree in any field of research. Previous experience in the 
analysis of post- translational modifications of proteins is an advantage. 

Salary will be within the UEA Research and Analogous Staff Grade 8 scale at 
between £38,140 and £48,246 pa; the appointment level will reflect 
qualifications, skills, knowledge and achievements. The position is 
available for two years in the first instance with possibility of renewal 
based on performance. 

Applicants should provide a CV, including the names and contact details of 
two or more referees, and a covering letter addressing the selection 
criteria. Please send formal applications, quoting the reference number 
below, either by e-mail to HR@tsl.ac.uk or by post to Kim Blanchflower, HR 
Manager, The Sainsbury Laboratory, Norwich Research Park, Colney, Norwich, 
NR4 7UH, UK. 

Applications will be reviewed from 4th November 2012 and the position will 
remain open until filled. 

The Sainsbury Laboratory (TSL) is a world leader in plant and microbial 
science and is dedicated to making fundamental discoveries in the science 
of plant-microbe interactions. TSL has expanded its scientific mission not 
only to continue providing fundamental biological insights into 
plant-pathogen interactions, but also to deliver novel, genomics-based 
solutions that will significantly reduce losses from major crop diseases, 
especially in developing countries. 

For more information please visit http://www.tsl.ac.uk 

Reference No: HoProt/2012 

Dr Simon J. Foster 
Laboratory Manager 
The Sainsbury Laboratory 
Norwich Research Park 
Norwich 
Norfolk NR4 7UH 
United Kingdom 

Tel: +44 1603 450431 
email: simon.foster@tsl.ac.uk 
web: www.tsl.ac.uk 

The Sainsbury Laboratory is a not-for-profit charity, number 1065510, and a 
company limited by guarantee, registered number 3346853 in England and 
Wales. Registered office: John Innes Centre, Norwich Research Park, Norwich 
NR4 7UH, UK 