The Institute of Cellular and Molecular Botany (IZMB, http://izmb.de) 
University of Bonn, Germany, invites applications for the position as 
 
 
Postdoc/ Junior Group Leader in Molecular Plant Sciences 
(wissenschaftlicher Mitarbeiter, paid according to E 13 TVL) 
 
 
starting at October 1, 2008. Applicants must hold a PhD degree (Dr. rer. nat.) in 
Botany/Plant Sciences, should have some post doc experience (1-3 years), a good 
publication record and teaching experiences. 
We seek a highly motivated and qualified person with a research focus in either plant-
microbe interaction, molecular plant physiology, plant cell biology, or plant 
biotechnology. The successful candidate is expected to participate in the M.Sc. Plant 
Sciences degree programme with a teaching obligation of 4SWS. 
A laboratory with basic equipment for plant molecular and cell biological work is 
available and additional equipment may be shared with the other research groups in the 
institute. The junior group leader will be supported by a part time technician, a student 
teaching assistant, and a moderate budget to cover the most basic expenses. Additional 
third-party fund sources will have to be developed by the successful candidate. 
 
The initial contract runs for 3 years with the possibility of renewal for maximally 3 more 
years. The jobholder will be entitled to a local commuter "Job-Ticket" available from the 
public utility company, Bonn. 
 
The University of Bonn is an equal opportunities employer. Preference will be given to 
suitably qualified women or handicapped people, all other considerations being equal. 
 
Applicants for the academic position are expected to submit a cover letter, CV, list of 
publications, description of research activities/projects and teaching experience, final 
grade certificates and names of three referees. 
 
Please address your application to: 
 
Managing Director 
Institute of Cellular and Molecular Botany 
University of Bonn 
Kirschallee 1, 
D-53115 Bonn 
Germany 
 
 
 
The deadline for applications is July 1, 2008.
