Post-Doc Position - Mittelsten Scheid Group 

PROJECT: 

A postdoctoral position is available in the Ortrun Mittelsten Scheid lab
<http://www.gmi.oeaw.ac.at/research-groups/ortrun-mittelsten-scheid/summary> 
at the Gregor Mendel Institute of Molecular Plant Biology in Vienna, Austria. 

Our group is interested in epigenetic regulation in plants and its interaction 
with the environment. Previous work in the lab has provided evidence for an 
important role of a chromatin remodeling complex during somatic and meiotic 
repair of DNA double strand breaks (manuscript in revision). We want to 
investigate the recruitment of the complex, the mode of action and the 
interactions with known and novel chromatin and repair components. 

REQUIREMENTS: 

We are seeking a postdoctoral fellow with demonstrated experience in the 
analysis of chromatin and/or DNA repair and with high motivation to drive this 
project. Our group appreciates good communication skills and the ability to work 
both independently and as part of a team with PhD students and technical assistants. 
The position is open immediately. 

PLACE: 

The Gregor Mendel Institute of Molecular Plant Biology 
(www.gmi.oeaw.ac.at&lt;http://www.gmi.oeaw.ac.at/&gt;) is an institution of the 
Austrian Academy of Sciences for basic research on plants. It is located in a new 
building on the Vienna Biocenter Campus and provides a creative, stimulating, 
international and English-speaking environment. The GMI offers competitive salaries, 
science-friendly child care facilities close to the institute, and supports research 
with various state-of-the-art services. Vienna is not only an attractive place for 
science but for many other activities. 

TO APPLY: 

Applications should be sent to the address below, preferably by e-mail. Please 
include a statement describing your research interests and goals, and a CV including 
a list of publications and the names and contact information for two references. 

Ortrun Mittelsten Scheid 
Gregor Mendel Institute of Molecular Plant Biology 
Austrian Academy of Sciences 
Dr. Bohr-Gasse 3 
1030 Vienna, Austria 

Phone +43-1-79044 98 30 
e-mail ortrun.mittelsten_scheid(at)gmi.oeaw.ac.at 
