  The following faculty position is currently advertised in Science and
  Nature.
  Genomics of Plant-Microbe Interactions
  School of Plant Sciences
  The University of Arizona
  Tucson, AZ 85721
  Position Description:
  A tenure-track position (80% research and 20% teaching) is available
  at the Assistant or Associate Professor level beginning August 16,
  2010. The successful candidate is expected to develop a vigorous and
  independent research program combining genomics, computational, and
  systems biology approaches to address important problems in
  plant-microbe interactions. Opportunities exist for research
  collaborations with faculty within the School and in related
  departments including Soils, Water, and Environmental Sciences, and
  Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. The successful candidate will also
  be expected to contribute to instruction at the undergraduate and
  graduate levels. The School is seeking an individual who is able to
  work with diverse students or colleagues, and who has experience with
  a variety of teaching methods and curricular perspectives.
  Qualifications:
  The position requires a Ph.D. degree in genomics, plant sciences,
  plant pathology, microbiology, or a related field. Candidates are
  expected to have postdoctoral training, and must demonstrate
  excellence in research and the communication skills appropriate for
  effective teaching. The successful candidate must have an ability to
  attract extramural funding.
  Salary:
  The salary will depend upon qualifications and experience.
  Application Deadline:
  Review of applications begins February 1, 2009 and continues until the
  position is filled.
  Application Procedure:
  Applicants must submit an on-line faculty application for job number
  44392 at [1]https://www.uacareertrack.com/. At the time of
  application, a Curriculum Vitae, statements of research and teaching
  interests and three letters of reference must also be sent to Dr.
  David W. Galbraith, Plant - Microbe Search Chair, School of Plant
  Sciences, (galbraith@arizona.edu).
  THE UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA IS AN EEO/AA/ADA EMPLOYER. WOMEN AND
  MINORITIES ARE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY

References

  1. https://www.uacareertrack.com/ 
