PhD fellowship at Max-Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology

I am currently seeking for a PhD student with previous training in the field(s) 
of plant molecular biology, plant physiology and/or ecology who is interested in 
working in a vibrant international research environment at Max-Planck Institute 
(MPI). Please send your CV; list of qualifications  and research interests, 
names, email-addresses of 3 references who have first-hand knowledge of your 
research skills and evidence of your English language skills to:

Dr. Ivan Galis
Group Leader
Max-Planck-Institute for Chemical Ecology
Department of Molecular Ecology
Hans-Knöll-Str. 8
D-07745 Jena
Germany
Email: igalis@ice.mpg.de

About the department
The laboratory is located in the Department for Molecular Ecology ( 
http://www/itb/home/home_en.htm ) at Max-Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology 
in Jena (Germany). The main research focus in the laboratory is the dissection 
of molecular and ecological mechanisms involved in plant-insect interactions, 
using tobacco (Nicotiana attenuata) model plant, and Manduca sexta as a model 
insect. We have developed an efficient silencing system based on virus (VIGS) 
and rapid transformation method for N. attenuata, as well as we have efficient 
molecular toolbox for this plant. The resources available in the lab include, 
for example, custom microarrays for tobacco, several LC-, GC-MS systems, large 
greenhouse facilities for experiments with transgenic plants and excellent 
conditions for work with herbivorous insects. In addition, our "successful 
phenotypes" with silenced target genes can be tested for ecological performance 
(fitness) and insect resistance in the natural habitat of N. attenuata in Great 
Basin Desert of the USA in Utah.

About the project
I am looking for a PhD student who will work with transcription factors and 
other regulators putatively involved in the signal transduction of herbivore 
signal(s), activating direct and indirect defenses in tobacco plants. We have 
isolated several candidate tobacco genes that are rapidly induced at 
transcriptional level upon herbivore attack and with jasmonic acid treatment. 
The PhD candidate should prepare virus induced gene silencing (VIGS) plants with 
these genes and test the role of these genes in herbivore resistance using 
closed greenhouse conditions. Positively tested regulators will be used to 
construct stable inverted repeat-silenced plants, analyzed for changes in gene 
expression using microarray systems and quantitative RT-PCR, changes in 
metabolic profiles, growth, response to hormones and other parameters. The most 
successful plant genotypes will be eventually tested in the field station in 
Utah.

Fellowship
We offer an initial 1-year contract that is extended to a total 3-year PhD 
project, providing adequate performance of the student within the first year of 
study. The studentship is 1000 EUR/month and includes other support, e.g. low-
priced bus tickets and low-budget accommodation in the student dormitory.

Selection procedure
Applications will be reviewed periodically and the position will stay opened 
until suitable candidate is found. The position can be filled immediately after 
the appropriate candidate is selected. The Max-Planck Institute is an equal-
opportunity employer and students of all nationalities are strongly encouraged 
to apply for this position.


