Subject:
[Arabidopsis] Faculty Position in Floriculture at Cornell
From:
Su-Sheng Gan <sg288@cornell.edu>
Date:
Mon, 13 Nov 2006 13:02:05 -0500
To:
arab-gen@magpie.bio.indiana.edu
CC:
Bill Miller <wbm8@cornell.edu>

ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF FLORICULTURE, CORNELL UNIVERSITY.
We are seeking a colleague to play a key role in the multidisciplinary research, extension and teaching 
team at the core of Cornell's nationally and internationally recognized floriculture program.  Research (60%):  
Develop an innovative, externally funded research program related to fundamental questions in floriculture crops. 
Potential areas of research may include the nutrition, biology or chemistry of rhizospheres in soilless media,  
management of nutrients and water for sustainable flower crop production, or whole-plant physiology related to  
optimization and acceleration of production. Opportunity exists to develop a graduate course in the candidate's
area of interest.   Extension (40%) activities to be focused with the goal of improving the sustainability 
and profitability of floriculture enterprises in the state.  Provide statewide leadership in collaboration 
with county and regionally based extension educators and state grower associations to deliver information to 
appropriate stakeholder groups.  Qualifications: Ph.D. in horticulture, plant biology, plant physiology, plant 
biochemistry or a related field.  Evidence of research excellence and strong leadership potential for directing 
successful extension programs.  Excellent written and oral communication skills and the ability to work in 
multi-disciplinary teams. The Department actively encourages applications from women and minority candidates, 
and is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer supporting efforts to attract all qualified applicants.  
Salary for this 9-month academic(tenure-track) position is competitive and commensurate with background and experience. 
 An attractive fringe benefits package is available. To apply, send a curriculum vitae, transcripts, 
five references and a statement of goals to Dr. Bill Miller, Department of Horticulture, 134 Plant Science 
Building, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853. (<mailto:wbm8@cornell.edu>wbm8@cornell.edu).  Application 
review will begin on January 8th  and continue until the position is filled.  Departmental info at  www.hort.cornell.edu.


