
      Post-Doctoral Fellowship at INRA, Institut Jean-Pierre Bourgin 
(Versailles, France) on Chromatin complexes in Arabidopsis thaliana


Polycomb Repressive Complexes (PRC1 and PRC2) are key chromatin complexes in gene 
silencing in eukaryotes. While PRC2 complex is conserved in plants and has important 
functions in seed development, flowering time regulation, vernalization response or cell fate 
determination, the existence of a plant PRC1 complex currently remains controversial due to 
the fact that no homologue to the PRC1 subunits has been identified by sequence homology. 
Recent studies have shown that in Arabidopsis, PRC1-like complexes might function as the 
animal PRC1. One PRC1-like core component is likely to be LIKE HETEROCHROMATIN 
PROTEIN 1 (LHP1) as it recognizes the H3K27me3 epigenetic mark as does Polycomb, a 
subunit of PRC1, allowing the establishment of specific repressive chromatin states. 

A Post-doctoral position is available for three years in our group. It aims to study the 
functions and the composition of LHP1/PRC1-like complexes in Arabidopsis thaliana in order 
to understand the mechanism of the plant Polycomb-mediated repression. The studies will 
include a combination of genetic, biochemical, and molecular approaches. 

Experience
Candidates with a strong background in epigenetics, chromatin biology and plant 
genomics/development as well as related technical skills (chromatin-related and RNA 
techniques, molecular biology, cell imaging..) are encouraged to apply.

Workplace
The host Laboratory, Laboratoire de Biologie Cellulaire, belongs to the Institut de la 
Recherche Agronomique (INRA), a national public scientific and technological institute 
devoted to plant biology and agronomy. The IJPB has a long-standing expertise in the field of 
plant biology, including genomics, genetics and epigenetics, breeding, metabolism, cell 
biology and development and it has excellent facilities for microscopy, plant growth, 
molecular and cell biology. It is located on the INRA Campus in Versailles (south west of 
Paris) (http://www-ijpb.versailles.inra.fr/).

Salary			~2200-2400 euros/month
Duration		3 years, starting in ~March/April 2009

Contact
Motivated candidates should send a CV, a letter of motivation and names and addresses of 
two references to:

Valérie Gaudin
Laboratoire de Biologie Cellulaire, UR501, Institut Jean-Pierre Bourgin, INRA
Route de Saint-Cyr, F-78026 Versailles Cedex France
valerie.gaudin@versailles.inra.fr
Tel 33 1 30 83 35 22 – Fax 33 1 30 83 30 99
