PhD POSITION AVAILABLE
For 4 years
Unravelling transcriptional networks involved in cell growth 

Place: Plant Research International, Wageningen, The Netherlands

Project description
The PhD candidate will participate in the large EU project AGRON-OMICS. This 
project aims to enhance the understanding of plant growth through a 
multidisciplinary research program focusing on the Arabidopsis model and 
designed to enable system level studies. It will focus on: (i) studying the 
components controlling growth processes in plant cells (genome sequences, 
proteins, metabolites), (ii) to understand how they coordinate their action, and 
(iii) 
to explain quantitative growth phenotypes at the molecular level. The leaf will 
be 
used as object for this study. 
The task of the research group at PRI is to unravel transcriptional networks 
underlying leaf growth. The objective is to isolate target genes of particular 
transcription factors, which are involved in cell growth and their role in cell 
division and expansion will be studied. Furthermore, the dynamics of leaf growth 
will be studied using fluorescence markers and we will search for novel mutants 
affected in cell division and expansion.
Facilities                                                                                                            
The work will be carried out at Plant Research International (PRI) in 
Wageningen, which is an international renowned knowledge institute in the field 
of life sciences. PRI offer an excellent infrastructure and training 
opportunities in 
the research school Experimental Plant Sciences (EPS). The candidate will work 
in the research group of Gerco Angenent. This research group consists of 
enthusiastic researchers, PhD students and technicians from many nationalities. 
More information can be found at http://www.pri.wur.nl/UK/.
Profile:
>	MSc degree in Biology or comparable education
>	Experience in Arabidopsis and molecular biology is required
>	Good communication skills, English speaking and writing
>	Team player


What do we offer?
Four years research position to study an interesting research topic in an 
excellent 
training environment. You will join a research team working in the AGRON-
OMICS project and there will be ample opportunities to collaborate with 
excellent 
labs in Europe.   

How to apply? Send your application letter and CV  to Gerco Angenent 
(Gerco.angenent@wur.nl).
 
 
 
 
