*The laboratory of Functionnal Genomics and Effector Biology invites 
applications for international student at the Ph.D. level for a project in 
Molecular Plant-Microbe Interaction.* 

Located in Trois-Rivieres, Qc, Canada, the University of Trois-Rivieres is 
a research focused institution that provides extraordinary support to its 
graduate students. The project hosted in the Germain lab ( 
www.germainhugo.com) focuses on pathogen effector biology with an emphasis 
on Arabidopsis immunity and immunity targets of biotrophic pathogen 
effectors. 

The candidate should have a strong background in molecular biology and 
plant biology. Competence and experience in plant-microbe interaction, 
genomics, bioinformatics, cellular biology and Arabidopsis growth and 
genetics are assets. The candidate will be asked to make construct, 
transformation in various microbes, perform infection assay in Arabidopsis, 
make crosses, genotype plants, perform immunoprecipitation, Western blots, 
protein purification, cellular fractionation, HPLC, etc. The objectives of 
the research program are to discover plant target of effectors, and 
discover Arabidopsis R-gene that confer resistance to non-host effector to 
engineer resistance in crop species. 

The candidate must hold, a Master Degree (or must be finishing a Master 
degree) or equivalent diploma, and must have exceptional academic record. 
The application is a competition for a scholarship of 23 000$CA/year (same 
in USD) for three years to be issued by the FRQNT. Excellence of the 
candidate, both at the academic level and in research as well the fit of 
the candidate with the proposed project based on previous experience and 
interest of the candidate will be decisive factors. The candidates must 
provide a list of their publication in peer reviewed journal. Interested 
candidate can send their CV to *hugo.germain@uqtr.ca*. no later than August 
25th, 2012. The candidate selected by the university to participate in the 
competition will be informed of its application status by the end of 
September (*the candidates that have not been noticed by the end of 
September will not have been pre-selected and should not try to 
contact uswith regards to their application status 
*). The position is to start after May 2013 and is subject to funding of 
the candidate by the FRQNT. Candidates having their own funding (full or 
partial) are also welcome to apply. 

For details on the program (available in French, English and Chinese). 
http://www.fqrnt.gouv.qc.ca/bourses/Fiches_programmes/index_V1_1B_1C_1I_1M_1W.htm 