RESEARCH ASSOCIATE I

Plant Science Department

South Dakota State University



A full-time 12-month Research Associate I position within the Plant Science Department 
of South Dakota State University.  This is a grant funded position, annual reappointment 
contingent upon availability of funds and satisfactory performance.



DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:

The incumbent will primarily be responsible for the autonomous coordination, 
conduction, and reporting of the molecular biology component within the Seed Molecular 
Biology group. This includes the oversight of duties carried out by hourly and/or 
temporary employees as well as graduate students and other program contributors. 
Specific duties associated with this component will entail, though not be limited to, 
design and conduct experiments to meet research goals and to prepare grant proposals 
and progress reports.



REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS:

An MS degree in Plant Science, Plant Pathology, Plant Molecular Biology or related 
field. Professional experience in molecular biology after the MS degree is required. 
Additional requirements include effective interpersonal, oral and written communication 
skills; and willingness to work flexible hours when necessary.



PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:

(1) diverse PCR protocols, (2) DNA, RNA and protein extraction, electrophoresis and 
hybridization, (3) working in sterile conditions with bacterial cultures or plant tissue 
culture, (4) growing plants in greenhouse and field, (5) writing grants and /or scientific 
publications, (6) experimental design and data analysis, and (7) laboratory management, 
including personnel supervision. Familiarity with the molecular biology of two or more 
biological systems in addition to protocol development and troubleshooting are also 
highly desirable qualities.



SALARY:  Salary will be commensurate with qualifications.



UNIVERSITY/COMMUNITY:

SDSU is located in Brookings, South Dakota, a community of approximately 18,800 near 
the east central border of South Dakota on Interstate 29.  The city has an excellent K-12 
education system, is accessible to major medical facilities, has an active cultural and 
social environment, and has numerous lakes and parks within driving distance.  It is 50 
miles north of Sioux Falls, a city of close to 150,000.



APPLICATION DEADLINE:  July 15, 2008



APPLICATION PROCESS:  To apply, visit the on-line employment site at:  
https://yourfuture.sdbor.edu, search by the position title, view the job announcement, and 
click on "apply for this posting."  The system will guide you through the electronic 
application form.  The employment site will also require the attachment of a cover letter 
(a statement explaining how you meet required and preferred qualification is required), 
resume, and a list of professional references.  Applications should present an accurate 
description of abilities, knowledge, skills, and interests relevant to the qualifications.



For questions on the position, contact Dr. Jose L. Gonzalez ( jose.gonzalez@sdstate.edu) 
(605-688-6907).



For assistance with the on-line employment process, contact SDSU Human Resources at 
(605) 688-4128.



South Dakota State University is committed to affirmative action, equal opportunity and 
the diversity of its faculty, staff and students.  Women and minorities are encouraged to 
apply.  Arrangements for accommodations required by disabilities can be made at TTY 
(605) 688-4394. SDSU prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, creed, 
religion, national origin, ancestry, citizenship, gender, marital status, pregnancy, sexual 
orientation, age, disability, veteran's status or any other protected class in the offering of 
all educational programs and employment opportunities.  Individuals with concerns 
regarding discrimination should contact:  Equal Opportunity Officer/Title IX 
Coordinator, Human Resources, Administration 324, SDSU, Brookings, SD  57007.
