SDSU FUNCTIONAL GENOMICS CORE FACILITY 
 
Research Scientist 
 
College of Agriculture and Biological Sciences 
 
South Dakota State University 
 
 
 
RESPONSIBILITIES: 
 
The College of Agriculture and Biological Sciences at South Dakota State University 
seeks to fill the position of Research Scientist of the new Functional Genomics Core 
Facility (FGCF) housed in the Northern Plains Biostress Laboratory. 
 
 
 
The SDSU-FGCF exists to facilitate interdisciplinary gene function research and training 
in viral, bacterial, plant and animal systems. The FGCF consists of 6 integrated 
laboratories (Genomics, Automated Genomics, Gel & Microplate Analysis, 
MicroImaging, General Tissue Prep and Histological Tissue Prep), each containing 
several instruments (listed at http://genomics.sdstate.edu/). A multi-department governing 
committee and a faculty director administer the FGCF. Responsibilities of the Research 
Scientist include (but are not limited to): coordinating daily FGCF operations, including 
supervision of one technician; defining and implementing standard operating procedures 
and maintenance for each instrument; providing group and individual training on FGCF 
policies and the proper use of each instrument, including data analysis; maintaining the 
FGCF website; managing the  billing system, providing informational and training 
sessions, and providing analytical services to university and industry users. 
 
 
 
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: 
 
A Ph.D in biology, microbiology, biochemistry, molecular biology, or a related area; 
research training and experience with DNA, RNA and protein quantification, resolving, 
visualizing and analysis; RT-PCR, practical experiences in a molecular-biology, multi-
user facility and computer tech support of molecular biology equipment. 
 
 
 
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: 
 
Research experience in fluorescence and confocal microscopy, microtomy, laser capture 
systems, DNA sequencers, and automated equipment such as liquid handling robots; 
strong computer skills, including experience with use of bioinformatic databases. 
 
 
 
SALARY: 
 
Salary is commensurate with qualifications. 
 
 
 
UNIVERSITY/COMMUNITY: SDSU is a land grant institution and the state's largest 
institution of higher education with an enrollment of approximately 11,000 students and 
strong growth in research activity. The FGCF has members from several departments and 
Centers on campus including Plant Science, Biology and Microbiology, Veterinary 
Science, Pharmaceutical Science, Animal and Range Science, Dairy Science, Nutrition, 
Food Science and Hospitality, Wildlife and Fisheries Science, Agricultural Engineering, 
The Center for Infectious Disease Research and Vaccinology, Center of Excellence in 
Drought Tolerance and the Center for Bioprocessing Research and Development. 
 
 
 
SDSU is located in Brookings, South Dakota, a community of approximately 17,500 near 
the east central border of South Dakota on Interstate 29. The city has an excellent K-12 
education system, is accessible to major medical facilities, has an active cultural and 
social environment, and has numerous lakes and parks within driving distance. It is 50 
miles north of Sioux Falls, a city of 150,000. 
 
 
 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 
 
Applications will be accepted until September 2, 2008, or until a suitable candidate is 
identified. 
 
 
 
APPLICATION PROCESS: 
 
SDSU accepts applications through an on-line employment site. To apply, visit: 
 https://yourfuture.sdbor.edu, search by the position title, view the job announcement, and 
click on "apply for this posting." The system will guide you through the electronic 
application form. The employment site will require the attachment of a cover letter, 
resume, and reference page (Please submit at least 3 professional references). For full 
consideration, interested applicants must also attach a career interest statement detailing 
the applicant's philosophy of university molecular biology core facility administration. 
Please contact SDSU Human Resources at (605) 688-4128 if you require assistance with 
this process. 
 
 
 
For questions on the position, contact Dr. Volker Brözel at volker.brozel@sdstate.edu or 
at (605)688-6483. 
 
 
 
South Dakota State University is committed to affirmative action, equal opportunity and 
the diversity of its faculty, staff and students.  Women and minorities are encouraged to 
apply.  Arrangements for accommodations required by disabilities can be made at TTY 
(605) 688-4394. SDSU prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, creed, 
religion, national origin, ancestry, gender, marital status, pregnancy, sexual orientation, 
age, disability, veteran's status or any other protected class in the offering of all 
educational programs and employment opportunities.  Individuals with concerns 
regarding discrimination should contact:  Equal Opportunity Officer/Title IX 
Coordinator, Human Resources, Administration 324, SDSU, Brookings, SD  57007. 
 Phone:  (605) 688-4128. 
 

