Postdoctoral position in Plant Genomics at South Dakota State University.

 

A postdoctoral position in Plant Genomics is immediately available in the Seed 
Molecular Biology Laboratory in the Department of Plant Sciences at SDSU. The 
position is available for two years and it is contingent to satisfactory 
performance and to the availability of funding. The starting date will be as 
soon as possible.

 

The successful candidate will lead the development of the first linkage map for 
a very high yielding native grass with great potential as a biomass crop. The 
lab is a participant in a campus-wide research effort in biomass production and 
utilization, from plant breeding to fermentation. The postdoctoral scientist 
will be expected to contribute to ongoing collaborations, and encouraged to 
develop new ones. The production of several peer-reviewed publications and 
presentations in scientific venues is expected. Other responsibilities include 
training of graduate and undergraduate students.

 

Applicants should have a recent PhD in Plant Genomics, Statistical Genetics, 
Plant Genetics, Plant Molecular Biology or related discipline.

 

Hands-on experience in diverse PCR-based markers systems and linkage map 
construction is required. Experience in marker development and linkage analysis 
in autopolyploid species (such as potato or sugar cane) is extremely desired. A 
strong theoretical background in Statistical Genomics, especially in linkage 
analysis of out crossing polyploid species will be favorable received.

Excellent English written and oral, communication skills are required.

Salary is commensurate with experience and education.

 

Review of applications has already started, and will continue until filled. 
Potential candidates are encouraged to contact Dr. Jose L.

Gonzalez (1-605-688-6907 or jose.gonzalez@sdstate.edu) for additional 
information. Interested candidates should send by email (in PDF format) a 
current CV, and full contact information for at least three professional 
references.

 

 

SDSU at a Glance

 

South Dakota State is a great place to be. The culture and landscape of SDSU is 
changing dramatically. From a student enrollment surpassing 11,000 to the 
monumental move to Division I athletics, to the opening of the new Seed 
Technology Laboratory, SDSU continues to make faculty, staff, alumni and friends 
proud to be a Jackrabbit.

 

Brookings

 

Brookings, South Dakota, home of South Dakota State University, is notably 
"Someplace Special." A community of 18,500, the city offers a strong primary and 
secondary school system; a clean, safe environment; an active community theater; 
a new ice skating facility; and a family water park open in May 2006.

 

Located in close proximity (~50 miles by interstate) to Sioux Falls, the state's 
largest city (~150,000 people), Brookings is also a short drive from 
Minneapolis, Minnesota; Omaha, Nebraska; and Fargo, North Dakota.




