Franco-Vietnamese PhD position

In plant metal tolerance towards phytoremediation application

At the Laboratory of Biochemistry & Plant Molecular Physiology,
Montpellier, France



The PhD position is opened for Vietnamese Graduated students since
the funding comes from the Vietnamese Government, in the framework
its partnership with France to support the establishment of the
Future University of Science and Technology in Hanoi (U.S.T.H).

The PhD position is opened in the "Plant Adaptation to Metals"
research group in Montpellier, France (www1.montpellier.inra.fr/ibip/
bpmp/english/teams/metaux.htm). The candidate will join our ongoing
research to investigate the mechanisms underlying the acquisition of
metal tolerance in Arabidopsis halleri as compared to its close
evolutionary relative Arabidopsis thaliana [1]. Beside their role in
innate immunity we discovered that Plant type I defensins (PDF1) play
a crucial role in the cellular tolerance to zinc and that they are
highly expressed in A. halleri as compared to A. thaliana [2, 3].

The proposed PhD project has the objective to decipher the signalling
cascade driving the very high expression of plant type 1 defensins
(PDF1) in A. halleri along with the identification of the partners
involved in this regulation (http://www1.montpellier.inra.fr/ibip/
bpmp/emplois.htm#these). Upon completion of this project, the PhD
student will have been trained to the use of sophisticated molecular
technologies (such as cloning, gene expression analyses using
quantitative PCR, Southern blot analyses...) as well as to plant
transformation procedures. The PhD student will be also confronted to
the problematic of engineering metal tolerant and hyper-accumulating
plants.

The position is open for Graduated students having a Master in Plant
Molecular Biology, Plant Genetics or Plant Biotechnology. Students
being graduated in Plant Physiology or Plant Breeding are also
welcome, but they should demonstrate an academic or a practical
expertise in Plant Molecular Biology. Interested student should send
a CV along with a motivation letter and a short summary for each of
their previous research internships to Dr. Pierre Berthomieu
berthomieu @supagro.inra.fr and to Dr. Francoise Gosti
gosti@supagro.inra.fr before the end of August 2010. Late
applications will be considered only if no student is selected by the
end of August.



[1] Shahzad et al. (2010) PLoS Genetics 6(4): e1000911

[2] Mirouze et al. (2006) Plant Journal 47:329-42

[3] Shahzad (2010) PhD thesis and manuscript in preparation
