Umeå University - with its 29,000 students and over 4,000 employees – is an organisation in constant 
change and development. The university’s researchers carry out excellence within several areas of research, 
and many of them are among the world’s elite. We are one of Sweden’s largest providers of education and 
offer a broad and attractive range of courses and programmes. Our campus constitutes an inspiring 
environment for everyone that studies and works here. 
ResearchTechnician/Engineer in Plant Cell 
Biology
We are offering a long-term employment as a research technician or engineer within the research area of 
plant cell biology and at the confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) platform of Umeå Plant Science 
Centre (UPSC). 
We are searching for a research technician or engineer to work in the research group of Dr. Markus Grebe 
(75%) and at the CLSM platform of UPSC (25%). CLSM has found multiple applications in plant and 
animal cell biology, particularly concerning the visualization of subcellular protein localisation and 
dynamics. It is therefore important to strengthen the competence and possibilities for CLSM applications at 
UPSC. The research group of Markus Grebe is currently largely maintaining and developing the CLSM 
facilities. The research technician/engineer position will be associated with this group at the Department of 
Plant Physiology, Umeå University. The candidate will participate in research projects in the area of 
Arabidopsis cell biology. This will also require to independently run the CLSM instrument(s) and to 
introduce users from different research groups at UPSC (or Umeå University) to their basic use and 
applications. 
Job description The position will involve CLSM and fluorescence microscopy-based visualization mostly 
in plants. This will include immunofluorescent imaging after immunolabelling, live imaging of fluorescent-
protein fusions and other fluorescent probes as well as subsequent basic image analysis. Cell biological 
analyses will be carried out on Arabidopsis mutants and transgenic plants. Plants will be grown by the 
candidate under sterile and greenhouse conditions, in order to subject them to subsequent molecular 
genotyping by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based molecular techniques and cell biological analyses. 
After a training period of three months, the candidate is expected to independently run a CLSM instrument 
and to introduce other users into its basic applications. The candidate should take over basic maintenance of 
the instrument(s) and correspondence with suppliers on the long-term. 
Qualifications Applications are invited at the levels of a research technician or engineer. Candidates may 
have a vocational training as a biological research technician, a masters or PhD degree obtained in biology 
or another life science. Practical experience in plant cell biology techniques including immunolocalisation, 
fluorescence microscopy and CLSM of at least two years will be required as well as practical skills in basic 
plant molecular biology techniques such as nucleic acid extraction and PCR. Good communication skills in 
English are expected.
The application should contain:
1.                  Curriculum vitae
2.                  Short written account of merits and experience relevant to the application.
3.                  Copies of degrees, certificates, course transcripts or other relevant documents.
4.                  List of publications (if applicable).
5.                  Addresses of two referees (e.g. previous employers) that may be asked to provide  
          a letter of reference.
For further information contact Markus Grebe, phone:  +46-(0)90-786-8237 or e-mail 
markus.grebe@plantphys.umu.se 
Union information is available from SACO,  +46-(0)90-786-5365, SEKO civil,  +46-(0)90-786-5296  and 
ST, +46-(0)90-786-5431. Applications will be discarded or, if the applicant so wishes, returned two years 
after the position has been filled. Documents sent electronically should be in MS Word or PDF format.
Your complete application, marked with reference number 316-4080-08, should be sent to jobb@umu.se 
or to the Registrar, Umeå University, SE-901 87 Umeå, Sweden to arrive December 17, 2008 at the latest. 
We are looking forward to receiving your application!

