
PhD Student Position in
Plant Developmental Cell Biology

available at Umeå Plant Science Centre (UPSC), Sweden, Dept. of Plant Physiology, Umeå University, from July 2010 or at the earliest possible time point. The position in the research group of Dr. Markus Grebe is supported by the Swedish Research Council (Vetenskapsrådet).

Project description. The project addresses the coordination of cell polarity within the plane of the tissue layer (planar polarity) in the root epidermis of Arabidopsis thaliana (c.f. Fischer et al. 2006. Current Biology 16, 2143-2149; Ikeda et al. 2009. Nature Cell Biology 11, 731-738). The work aims towards identification of molecular and genetic interactors of KREUZ UND QUER, a planar polarity protein from Arabidopsis, by protein-protein interaction screening in yeast and genetic suppressor screening in an Arabidopsis kreuz und quer mutant background. A PhD education is 4 years (48 months). Up to 20% as teaching assistant may be included in the position (then the position will be extended accordingly).

Requirements. Highly motivated candidates with a background in genetics, molecular biology, cell biology, and/or biochemistry of Arabidopsis thaliana are invited for application. Practical expertise in some of the following techniques will be of major advantage: molecular cloning of plasmid constructs for protein expression in bacteria, yeast and/or plants, protein expression in and purification from bacteria, Western blotting, yeast two-hybrid analysis, immunofluorescence microscopy and/or imaging of fluorescent proteins by confocal laser scanning microscopy, Arabidopsis genetics (e.g. double mutant construction), molecular genotyping of mutants. Good English communication and writing skills are required. Recruitment will follow the Higher Education Ordinance (Högskoleförordningen chapters 5 and 7). Prerequisites include 240 ECTS credits (Swe. högskolepoäng) of higher education studies of which 60 should be on an advanced level (Master level).

For more information, you may informally contact group leader Dr. Markus Grebe at markus.grebe@plantphys.umu.se<http://www8.umu.se/umu/aktuellt/arkiv/lediga_tjanster/markus.grebe@plantphys.umu.se> . For more information about Umeå Plant Science Centre have a look at http://www.upsc.se/. Union information is available from SACO, +46-(0)90-786 53 65, SEKO, +46-(0)90-786 52 96 and ST, +46-(0)90-786 54 31.

The application should be written in English and can be submitted electronically or in hard-copy form. Applicants should submit their CV, transcripts of course records from their studies, Bachelor/Masters exam grades, if possible a copy of their Bachelor and/or Masters theses, contact information for two references or two letters of reference.

Applications will be discarded or, if the applicant so wishes, returned two years after the position has been filled. Documents sent electronically should be in MS Word or PDF format. If you are applying to several positions with different reference numbers, you must submit a separate application for each position.

Your complete application, marked with reference number 313-152-10, should be sent to jobb@umu.se<mailto:jobb@umu.se> (state the reference number as subject) or to The Registrar, Umeå University, SE-901 87 Umeå, Sweden to arrive March 18, 2010 at the latest.

We look forward to receiving your application!

