Post-doc position at Umeå Plant Science Centre (UPSC), Sweden, on Planar Polarity of 
Root-Hair Positioning in Arabidopsis  
The position will be a two-year, tax-free, post-doc stipend financed by the Kempe 
foundation and is available at the earliest possible time point. The project addresses the 
role of protein interactions during the coordination of cell polarity in the Arabidopsis root 
epidermis, specifically during the formation of plant-specific planar polarity of root-hair 
positioning (c.f Grebe et al. 2002, Current Biology 12, 329-334; Fischer et al. 2006, 
Current Biology 16, 2143-2149; Fischer et al. 2007, Biochem. Soc. Trans. 35,149-151). 
Highly motivated candidates with expertise in Arabidopsis genetics, molecular biology, 
biochemistry and cell biology are encouraged to apply. A background in protein-protein 
interaction methods could be of advantage. To qualify for the position you should have a 
PhD degree or equivalent obtained, preferably, no longer than three years ago.  
Your application should be submitted electronically until the 1st of May 2009 as a Word 
.doc or in .pdf format with a file preferably below 3 Mb. Applicants are required to 
submit a curriculum vitae, copies of degree certificates, a statement of previous research 
achievements, a publication list and the names of two or more references who have 
agreed to provide a letter of recommendation, as well as one .pdf file of their most 
relevant publication directly to 
markus.grebe@plantphys.umu.se<mailto:markus.grebe@plantphys.umu.se> .  
Interested candidates may informally contact project leader Dr. Markus Grebe, Umeå 
Plant Science Centre, Department of Plant Physiology, Umeå University at 
markus.grebe@plantphys.umu.se<mailto:markus.grebe@plantphys.umu.se> . More 
information about UPSC can be found at http://www.upsc.se/. With a total of 
approximately 170 researchers, PhD students and technical personnel, UPSC is the 
largest plant science centre in Scandinavia and one of the major European research 
centers in the molecular plant sciences.
