  A postdoctoral position is available to study the control of RNA decay
  in Arabidopsis, particularly in response to abiotic stress or small
  RNAs. Approaches will include deep sequencing of the RNA Degradome
  with short or long-read technologies (Illumina and PacBio),
  bioinformatic analysis, and follow-up experiments to investigate
  biological significance. A few examples are below and full set of lab
  publications can be found under the pull-down menu at
  [1]http://ag.udel.edu/plsc/faculty/pamgreen/index.html
  Our laboratory is located in the Delaware Biotechnology Institute
  (DBI), a state-of-the-art interdisciplinary research facility of the
  University of Delaware. DBI has a vibrant intellectual atmosphere and
  career development activities specifically for postdocs. Our location
  in Newark, DE, near major cities (Philadelphia, Baltimore, New York
  and Washington DC) and waterways, provides a variety of cultural and
  outdoor activities, a pleasant college town environment, and a modest
  cost of living.
  Individuals with strong molecular backgrounds (in any system), some
  programming ability/aptitude, demonstrated research accomplishments,
  and good communication skills are particularly encouraged to apply.
  Candidates should a letter of interest, CV, and the names and contact
  information for three references to Pam Green, [2]green@dbi.udel.edu
  Also, please let me know if you'll be at the ASPB meeting as we may
  have the chance to interact there.
  German, M.A., Pillay, M., Jeong, D-H., Hetawal, A., Luo, S.,
  Janardhanan, P., Kannan, V., Rymarquis, L., Nobuta, K., German, R., De
  Paoli, E., Lu, C., Schroth, G., Meyers, B.C. and Green, P.J. Global
  identification of microRNA-target RNA pairs by parallel analysis of
  RNA ends. Nature Biotechnology 26: 941 - 946 (2008)
  German, M.A., Luo, S., Schroth, G., Meyers, B.C., and Green, P.J.
  Construction of Parallel Analysis of RNA Ends (PARE) libraries for the
  study of cleaved miRNA targets and the RNA degradome. Nature Protocols
  4:356-362 (2009)
  Rymarquis, L.A., Souret, F.F., and Green, P.J. Evidence that XRN4, an
  Arabidopsis homolog of exoribonuclease XRN1, preferentially impacts
  transcripts with certain sequences or in particular functional
  categories. RNA 17: 501-511 (2011)

References

  1. http://ag.udel.edu/plsc/faculty/pamgreen/index.html
  2. mailto:green@dbi.udel.edu 
