Subject:
[Arabidopsis] Postdoctoral Positions, Functional Genomics of miRNAs and siRNAs


   Postdoctoral Positions, Functional Genomics of miRNAs and siRNAs
   Delaware Biotechnology Institute, University of Delaware
   
   Two postdoctoral positions are open to follow up on our recent deep
   sequencing of miRNAs and siRNAs from plants using MPSS and 454
   sequencing technologies and related studies (see Lu et al., Science,
   309:1567-1569, 2005; Henderson et al, Nature Genetics,
   38:721-725,2006; Meyers et al., Current Opinion in Biotechnology,
   17:139-146, 2006; Souret et al., Mol. Cell, 15:173-183, 2004).
   Possible areas of research include the role of miRNAs and specialized
   siRNAs in abiotic stress responses in Arabidopsis, mRNA stability
   regulated by hormones or the clock in Arabidopsis, and the interaction
   of microbes with Medicago truncatula.  The successful candidates will
   be exposed to small RNA library construction, identification of mRNA
   targets of miRNAs, small RNA microarrays, small RNA biosynthesis
   mutants, and studies of biological function involving reverse genetic
   analysis of miRNA targets, miRNA overexpression, and multi-network
   modeling.  He/she will develop expertise in some or all of these areas
   depending on the project and will be exposed to sophisticated
   computational analysis through our extensive collaboration on all
   small RNA projects with the lab of Blake Meyers.  The legume project
   is also a collaboration with the lab of Janine Sherrier.  Applications
   are especially encouraged from candidates with a strong background in
   molecular biology in any system, research accomplishments published or
   in press in international journals, and who enjoy working both
   independently and as part of a collaborative team. Please send a
   letter indicating your research interests, a CV, and the names and
   contact information for three references to Dr. Pam Green, Delaware
   Biotechnology Institute, University of Delaware, 15 Innovation Way,
   Newark, DE 19711 ([1]green@dbi.udel.edu).
   
   The University of Delaware is located in a nice college town along the
   eastern corridor, about an hour from Philadelphia and Baltimore and
   two hours from New York and Washington, DC.  Our lab enjoys a strong
   association with the College of Marine Studies located in the costal
   town of Lewes, DE.  The Delaware Biotechnology Institute is a state of
   the-art-facility built by the University about five years ago
   [2]http://www.dbi.udel.edu/
   The University of Delaware is an Equal Opportunity Employer which
   encourages applications from minority group members and women.

References

   1. 3D"mailto:green@dbi.udel.edu"
   2. 3D"http://www.dbi.udel.edu/"

