Faculty Position

Department of Biology & Biotechnology
Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI)
Worcester, Massachusetts, USA

The Department of Biology & Biotechnology invites applications for a
tenure-track, academic year faculty position at the ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
level. This new position is part of a strategic growth initiative in life
sciences and will be located at the new WPI Life Science and Bioengineering
Center that will open in Spring 2007. Research areas of particular interest
include MOLECULAR ECOLOGY/EVOLUTION, PLANT SCIENCE and ENVIRONMENTAL
GENOMICS. Individuals that employ quantitative approaches in their research
methodology are especially sought.  This position will complement existing or
contribute to targeted strengths in cell, molecular, and
developmental/regenerative biology, ecology/evolution, and computational
biology. Applicants will possess the Ph.D. degree and have postdoctoral
training. The successful candidate will be expected to establish a vigorous,
extramurally funded research program in ones area of expertise, as well as
develop a strong teaching program at the undergraduate and/or graduate level.
Compensation, new laboratory space and resources for startup funding are
competitive and commensurate with research experience and accomplishments.

WPI is a nationally ranked, selective technology-centered university with
2,900 undergraduate and over 1,000 graduate students.  The Department of
Biology & Biotechnology currently enrolls ~225 undergraduate majors and ~20
graduate students (Ph.D. & M.S.). Worcester, New England's third largest
city, and the surrounding area offer diverse academic, economic, cultural,
and recreational resources. Opportunities for collaboration exist among
several neighboring institutions including the University of Massachusetts
Medical School and Tufts Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine.

Interested candidates should send a curriculum vitae, description of research
plan, a statement of teaching philosophy, and a list of five references (with
full contact information) to:  Biology & Biotechnology Search Committee,
Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Human Resources, 100 Institute Rd.,
Worcester, MA 01609-2280.  You may email your information to:
human-resources@wpi.edu.  NO PHONE CALLS PLEASE.  Review of applications will
be conducted on a rolling basis and continue until the position is filled.
For additional information and inquiries about the department and WPI visit:
http://www.wpi.edu/Academics/Depts/Bio/

To enrich education through diversity, WPI is an affirmative action, equal
opportunity employer.  Women and minorities are especially encouraged to
apply.


