Postdoctoral Position

Institute of Plant Molecular Biology, Strasbourg, France

A 2.5 years post-doc position is available at the IBMP, Strasbourg, France, on the subject 
of mitochondrial DNA recombination and transmission.
The project is the study of changes in mitochondrial DNA heteroplasmy and copy number during plant 
development, gametogenesis, and in certain mutant backgrounds. The candidate will use genetic, cell 
biology and molecular biology approaches to address these questions. The biochemical functions of several 
proteins involved in DNA recombination as well as their roles in mitochondrial genome transmission will 
also be studied. These projects will be developed in collaboration with staff researchers of the laboratory.

The post doctoral researcher will have a PhD thesis in biological sciences and will have a 
strong background in molecular biology and/or cell biology. 
We would be interested in candidates corresponding to at least two of these criteria: 
- has worked on mitochondrial gene expression 
- has worked on DNA recombination 
- has worked on DNA-protein interactions 
- has experience on plant cell biology and/or genetics 
- has experience with laser microdissection 
 
Salary: 43 000¤ pa 
Starting now
Applications will be accepted until the position is filled.


The IBMP it is one of the leading French centers devoted to integrative plant biology. The institute hosts 
about 200 researchers, and is composed of 5 scientific departments, which focus on mitochondrial 
biogenesis, the molecular and cellular mechanisms of plant growth, differentiation, development and 
defense reactions against pathogens and environmental stress. These research programs are supported by 
platforms run by dedicated technical staff: microscopy (RIO label), DNA sequencing, proteomics, 
bioinformatics and metabolomics. For more details about the Institute and the mitochondrial biogenesis 
department, consult our web site: http://ibmp.u-strasbg.fr/
 
For application, send a CV, qualifications and experience, along with contact details of two referees to: 
Dr. José Gualberto 
jose.gualberto@ibmp-ulp.u-strasbg.fr

