Open Post Doc & open Ph.D. Student
position in the Plant Cold/Pathogen Stress group of prof Tapio Palva at the
Division of Genetics, Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences,
Viikki Biocenter, University of Helsinki, Finland. The group is a member of
the Finnish Centre of Excellence in Plant Signal Research (web page
http://www.helsinki.fi/bioscience/plantsignal/)

We are investigating the fundamental biological processes that govern plant
responses and adaptations to its environment, the molecular communication
involved in such responses as well as ascribe a function to the response
proteins and other molecules involved. In our program we focus on (i) plant
responses to cold and related abiotic stresses and (ii) are studying the
molecular basis of plant pathogen interactions using Arabidopsis and
bacterial or fungal pathogens as models. In the latter work we have
identified WRKY70 transcription factor as a key elements in the
transcriptional reprogramming after pathogen attack and described a role for
WRKY70 as a modulator of salicylate and jasmonate signaling (Li et al. 2004,
Plant Cell 16, 319; Li et al. 2006, Plant J. 46, 477).

We are partners in the ERA PG project “Multiple Stress Responses and
Adaptations”, of which the objectives are to analyze responses and
adaptations of plants to multiple stresses and to identify the level and
functions of stress regulatory networks and their crosstalk. In our group we
will investigate the contribution of 13 members of the subfamily 3 of WRKY
transcription factors (including WRKY70) to plant stress responses. 

We are looking for two highly motivated researchers, who are capable of
working independently for this project. We require education in biological
sciences and expect expertise in molecular biology and interest in plant
pathogen interactions and plant signal transduction. We provide a modern and
stimulating research environment and require active interest in gaining
experience in modern molecular and genomic techniques.

The post doc candidate should have at least two co-authorships in
internationally reviewed journals and should have practical experience in at
least one of the following: plant molecular biology, plant hormone analyses,
microarrays, immunoprecipitation, protein analyses and/or yeast two hybrid
analyses.

The positions can be filled from September 2007. Send your application with
CV and contact details of two references to Dr Günter Brader
(gunter.brader@helsinki.fi). More information on current publications and
other present project outlines are available at the group webpage
http://www.helsinki.fi/bioscience/plantgenetics/


