University of Liverpool, SCHOOL OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES

The School of Biological Sciences (rated 5 in RAE 2001) is the largest 
department in the University covering the full range of biological sub-
disciplines within a single research and teaching organisation 
(www.liv.ac.uk/biosciences). The School is housed in a new Biosciences Research 
Building, which provides state-of-the-art laboratories, a range of core 
facilities for research and teaching plus a business incubator. 

 THREE LECTURESHIPS

£33,779 - £42,791 pa

We wish to appoint individuals with excellent research and publication records, 
preferably in one of the following areas: Marine Biology/Ecology (e.g. fish 
ecology, marine plants, quantitative marine ecology, rocky shore ecology); 
Quantitative/Systems Biology (e.g. modelling, or the generation and/or analysis 
of large data sets, where a background in biology, mathematics or physics might 
be appropriate); Model Systems (e.g. in the study of development, neuroscience, 
disease or stem cell biology); Functional / comparative genomics (e.g. genome 
analyses, or conserved non-coding sequences).

Candidates working in any of the above areas using plants as their model system 
are encouraged to apply. The Plant Science Group at Liverpool has a large, 
modern transgenic glasshouse, a suite of new controlled environment plant growth 
chambers, state-of-the-art luciferase imaging and gas exchange analysis systems, 
as well as excellent modern laboratory facilities.

Candidates with expertise in any other area of biological sciences will also be 
considered provided they synergize with one or more of the existing research 
strengths of the School.

 

For application details please visit our website:

http://www.liv.ac.uk/working/job_vacancies/academic/A-563467.htm

Or email:
Anthony.hall@liv.ac.uk

 Job Ref: A-563467     
Closing Date: 7 September 2007 

Dr Anthony Hall
University of Liverpool
School of Biological Sciences
Bioscience Building
Crown Street
Liverpool
L69 7ZB


