Job Title: Project Coordinator, Halliday Lab, Edinburgh, UK

Vacancy Reference: 3012360
TO APPLY GO TO: http://www.jobs.ed.ac.uk/
Department: Institute of Molecular Plant Science
Job Type: Full Time (3 years)
Live Date: 29-Jan-2010
Expiry Date: 01-Mar-2010
Salary 36,43,840

We are seeking a project coordinator for ROBuST, a collaborative,
BBSRC/EPSRC-funded project, with participating units at the Universities of
Edinburgh, York, Liverpool and Warwick. The aim of this project is to
establish the impact of temperature on a defined Arabidopsis signalling
network, which comprises the interconnected pathways of light, the circadian
clock and cold acclimation. ROBuST is combining experimental and theoretical
approaches to provide the first detailed understanding of temperature
responses across any complex biological signalling network. Working in
close-association with the Centre for Systems Biology at Edinburgh,
mathematical models will be constructed with input from cutting-edge high
throughput data. This multidisciplinary project aims to accelerate our
understanding of the impact of temperature on dynamic biological processes.

The post holder will develop and implement strategies to facilitate project
coordination between sites. We strongly encourage applicants with a track
record in managing multidisciplinary, high-technology research projects or
similar business ventures. Applicants should have a PhD a relevant subject
and at least 4 years experience in molecular genet/biotech/bioinformatics,
in academia and/or industry, and preferably management training. Experience
in plant molecular genetics and/or systems biology will be an advantage.

The post offers an active role in steering and coordinating a large
interdisciplinary project to a prominent position in the field. Together
with the project PI, the Coordinator will play a key part in assuring the
successful integration of a variety of different disciplinary participants
and projects. To achieve this the postholder must combine a good level of
relevant academic understanding, strong project, staff and resource
management skills, excellent networking and influencing skills, and ideally
some knowledge of relevant specialist business/research skills such as
integrative project management and research proposal development.
