Post-doctoral Research Position at UC Davis 

A post-doctoral position in circadian biology is available in the 
Department of Plant Biology at UC Davis, starting on 1/1/2013 or upon 
agreement. 

The NSF-sponsored project focuses on the characterization of pathways that 
coordinate plant growth with daily environmental changes using sunflower as 
a model system. Sunflower plants are well known to be robust solar 
trackers, adjusting their growth during the day so that their leaves and 
apices are consistently perpendicular to the suns rays. Remarkably, they 
also re-orient their growth during the night in anticipation of the timing 
and direction of dawn, so that they are facing east well before the sun 
rises. We have recently shown that this directed growth at night in 
anticipation of dawn is controlled by the plant circadian clock. The 
circadian clock influences multiple light and hormone signaling pathways in 
Arabidopsis (Covington and Harmer, 2007; reviewed in Harmer, 2009), but it 
is not clear how these pathways are integrated with each other. Sunflower, 
with its recently sequenced genome, provides an ideal model system to 
investigate this question. The successful post-doc applicant will use 
RNA-seq and a high throughput hormone analysis platform to identify 
pathways involved in clock-coordinated directional growth. These studies 
will provide novel insights into how the light and circadian networks work 
together to control plant growth in the natural environment. 

The candidate should be familiar with standard molecular techniques and 
have an interest in circadian biology and pathways regulating plant growth. 
 Previous experience with RNA-seq, expression analysis, and hormone 
response would be a definite plus. This project will be performed at the 
Dept. of Plant Biology at the University of California, Davis, under the 
supervision of Dr. Stacey Harmer. With over 100 plant-focused research 
groups and a strong program in the biological sciences in many model 
systems, UC Davis provides an excellent environment for fundamental studies 
in plant biology. Davis is a pleasant college town located in the northern 
Central Valley of California. It is 20 minutes from the state capital 
(Sacramento), and 1hr 20' from San Francisco. 

Applications should be submitted in electronic form, and should include a 
CV, a short description of previous research and current research 
interests, and three letters of reference. The candidate should have 
obtained his or her PhD within the last 3 years. A strong record of 
publication will be the major criterion for screening applications. 
 Inquiries and applications should include the subject line "Postdoctoral 
Position" and should be sent to: 

Dr. Stacey Harmer 

slharmer@ucdavis.edu 

1-530-752-8101 
