 
UNIVERSITY OF LIVERPOOL, UK 
 
PLANT SCIENCES RESEARCH GROUP 
 
 SCHOOL OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES 
 
 
 
 
You will join a 3-year BBSRC-funded project “Sequencing the 
trancriptome of Kalanchoe fedtschenkoi: a model for Crassulacean acid 
metabolism (CAM), embryogenic plantlet formation and the 
Saxifragales”. This is a ground-breaking project that will employ the 
latest ultra high-throughput pyrosequencing technology (Roche/454 GS 
Leonardo) to achieve deep sequencing of the transcribed portion of 
the K. fedtschenkoi genome. 
 
 
 
 
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER 
 
 
 
£28,289 - £29,139 pa 
 
 
 
You will generate cDNA samples for 454 sequencing and undertake 
digital northern analysis of the 454 data to identify the genes 
required for the circadian control of CAM, plantlet formation and 
other unique aspects of K. fedtschenkoi's biology. You will 
collaborate with a second bioinformatics postdoc to build contigs 
from the 454 reads, and develop a K. fedtschenkoi EST database to 
provide access to the ~15 billion base pairs of K. fedtschenkoi DNA 
sequence that you will be involved in generating. For the CAM- 
associated genes identified through the 454 sequencing, you will 
perform detailed circadian transcriptome analysis using a Beckman- 
Coulter GeXP system to profile the transcript abundance of groups of 
30 genes simultaneously. CAM-associated regulatory genes will be 
manipulated by generating transgenic K. fedtschenkoi lines, and you 
will perform detailed  phenotypic analysis to study the ability of 
these lines to perform CAM. You will also coordinate the production 
of a K. fedtschenkoi BAC library, clone BACs for CAM-associated 
genes, and sequence the BACs using the Roche/454 GS Leonardo. 
 
 
 
You should have (or be about to obtain) a PhD with experience in 
plant molecular biology, biochemistry and/or physiology with 
preference being given to individuals with experience of analysis of 
large genomics data sets. Ideally, you will also have experience of 
generating plant binary constructs for RNAi and overexpression, and 
working with non-model plant species. Job Ref: R-567182 
 
 
RESEARCH TECHNICIAN GRADE 5 
 
 
 
£20,458 - £22,332 pa 
 
 
 
You will be responsible for the growth and maintenance of K. 
fedtschenkoi, isolation of RNA and DNA samples, generating transgenic 
lines to manipulate key CAM genes, and the study of the phenotypes of 
these lines. 
 
 
 
You should be qualified to BTEC Higher level (or equivalent) with 
experience in plant molecular biology, biochemistry and/or physiology 
with preference being given to individuals with experience of tissue 
culture based plant transformation. Ideally, you will also have 
experience of PCR, RT-PCR, and enzyme and metabolite assays. Job Ref: 
S-567180 
 
 
 
Closing date for both posts: 22 February 2008 
 
 
For informal enquiries, please contact Dr. James Hartwell, e-mail: 
hartwell@liv.ac.uk 
 
Weblink for Hartwell lab research interests: http://www.liv.ac.uk/ 
biolsci/people/academic/hartwell_j/index.html 
 
 
 
For full details, or to request an application pack, 
 
visit www.liv.ac.uk/working/job_vacancies/ 
 
or e-mail jobs@liv.ac.uk 
 
Tel 0151 794 2210 (24 hr answerphone), 
 
please quote Ref: in all enquiries 
 
Dr. James Hartwell, 
Lecturer in Plant Metabolism, 
School of Biological Sciences, 
University of Liverpool, 
Crown Street, 
Liverpool, 
L69 7ZB 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0)151 795 4561 
Fax: +44 (0)151 795 4410 
E-mail: hartwell@liv.ac.uk 
Web: http://www.liv.ac.uk/biolsci/people/academic/hartwell_j/index.html
