We are looking for highly motivated individuals to join our ongoing 
research projects on chromatin function and epigenetics in plants. We study 
regulation of flowering time and stress physiology with a focus on the 
function of Polycomb Group proteins and other chromatin modifying protein 
complexes. Polycomb Group proteins are major regulators of cell fate and 
differentiation and have been implicated in tumor formation in animals. We 
use forward genetics, biochemistry, molecular biology and genomics 
approaches to uncover the molecular mechanisms by which chromatin states 
affect gene expression and establish cellular identity. Our approaches 
involve diverse technologies ranging from transcriptome and epigenome 
profiling by next generation sequencing over mass spectrometry to machine 
learning and modeling. 

The positions are open to enthusiastic individuals with strong records of 
scientific productivity. Applicants should have a solid background in 
molecular biology, genetics, biochemistry or bioinformatics. Candidates 
with strong interest in epigenetics, chromatin and epigenomics are 
especially encouraged to apply. 
The positions are associated with the research group of Lars Hennig at the 
Department of Plant Biology and Forest Genetics at the SLU, Uppsala. The 
department offers a creative and stimulating international environment 
covering diverse fields in basic and applied plant biology; for more 
information visit the web page at www.vbsg.slu.se 
Plant science is particularly strong in Uppsala and coordinated in the 
Linnean Center for Plant Biology. With the Science for Life Laboratories in 
Uppsala and Stockholm we have access to most advanced technology platforms 
for genomics, proteomics, bioimaging and chemical biology. In addition, the 
Evolutionary Biology Centre and other institutes at Uppsala University make 
unique expertise locally available. 

Uppsala, Sweden's fourth largest city, has two universities and with 35'000 
students a very lively student atmosphere. The SLU campus is ideal for 
outdoor recreation, with football pitches, a beach volleyball court, a 
Frisbee golf course, paths for jogging and three gyms offering ample 
keep-fit opportunities. Stockholm, the Venice-of-the-North, is not far away 
- it takes only 40 minutes by train. Stockholm international airport is 
also close by, 20 minutes by train from Uppsala, and has frequent 
connections to many international destinations. 

Applications, including (1) CV including publication list, (2) a 
description of research experiences, (3) a statement of scientific 
interests as well as (4) contact information of two to three referees 
should be submitted by e-mail to Lars.Hennig@slu.se. 