Living with uninvited guests - comparing plant and animal responses to
endocytic invasions

Eukaryotic cells infected by pathogens are compromised at many
different levels, because an extensive system of communication between
the host and the pathogen is established via inter-species
protein-protein interactions. How do cells respond to bacteria, which
usually encode hundreds to thousands of genes? To which subset of the
corresponding bacterial gene products are host cells exposed? A
European project of 7 laboratories tries to address these questions
for host responses to Salmonella, which physically enters both animal
and plant cells. This spectacular and to date unique tolerance of
Salmonella to extreme divergence of host species, makes this organism
an ideal case study to investigate fundamental biological mechanisms
of host-pathogen communication. Studying the similarities and
differences in responses of very diverse hosts to the same pathogen,
can reveal how pathogens evade detection and elimination from
hosts. This project has practical significance, because Salmonella
bacteria present in raw meats, fruits and vegetables cause
salmonellosis, which is the s most widely spread food poisoning.

By bringing together 7 laboratories working in infection biology,
signalling,  transcriptomics, proteomics, bioinformatics and systems
biology, we will ask the following Which weak  exist in animals and
plants that this pathogen is . Our central hypothesis is that plants
and animals respond to pathogen invasion in fundamentally similar
ways.  We will test this hypothesis through an integrative cycle of
computational and experimental approaches. Systems biology is needed
to address the even more complex interaction between bacteria and
eukaryotic hosts. Recent advances in proteomics and transcriptomics
provide the opportunity to study the whole range of inter-dependent
responses inaccessible to traditional methods. This will allow us to
develop an integrated picture of cellular pathways, in which we
identify the positions of the proteins that communicate with the
pathogen. These results will be exploited for drug development,
disease forecasting, prevention and control.

Several post-doctoral positions are available in this 3-year project
in the partner laboratories of Judith Klein-Seetharaman, Research
Center Julich, Germany (coordinator); Heribert Hirt, URGV Plant Genomics,
Paris, France; Vincent Jansen, Alex Gammerman, Mikhail Soloviev, Royal
Holloway University of London, UK and VLA, Surrey, UK; Gary Coulton,
St. George's University and Hospital, London, UK; Harald Mischak,
Mosaiques Diagnostics, Germany; Baldo Oliva, Universitat Pompeu Fabra,
Spain; Jose Manuel Mas, Veronica Martinez and Laura Pujadas,
Infociencia, Spain.

Candidates should submit a full CV, including publication record and
two reference letters to Heribert Hirt(hirt@evry.inra.fr). Application
deadline 28 February 2010.
