A postdoctoral position in plant epigenetics

The Gregor Mendel Institute of Molecular Plant Biology (GMI), which
is located at the Vienna Biocenter Campus, is a newly established
basic plant research institute owned by the Austrian Academy of
Sciences. Neighbouring institutes include the Research Institute of
Molecular Pathology (IMP), the Institute of Molecular Biotechnology
Austria (IMBA) and the Max F. Perutz Laboratories (MFPL). The working
language at the GMI is English.

Control and function of heterochromatin de-condensation in pollen

Dr. Hisashi Tamaru (email: hisashi.tamaru@gmi.oeaw.ac.at)

We study epigenetic aspects of the plant male gametophyte, pollen,
using Arabidopsis thaliana as a model. We wish to understand what
determines the chromatin state and cell fate during pollen
development. We have found that the vegetative cell nucleus of pollen
undergoes extensive de-condensation of centromeric constitutive
heterochromatin, coincident with non-CG hypermethylation by RNA-
directed DNA methylation (see EMBO Rep 10: 1015-1021, 2009).

We are seeking a highly motivated postdoctoral researcher to
investigate the molecular details of how the vegetative nucleus in
pollen actively disassembles centromeric heterochromatin and its
biological functions. The ideal candidate will have experience in the
area of plant molecular biology and cytology, namely fluorescence in
situ hybridization (FISH) and immunostaining, and a strong interest
in the application of live cell/nucleus imaging approaches to genetic
screens for identifying genes involved in the process.

Interested candidates should send a CV, contact information for 2-3
referees and a cover letter to Dr. Hisashi Tamaru by email:
hisashi.tamaru@gmi.oeaw.ac.at.

Applicants will only be contacted if invited for interview.

Closing date 30 June 2010.

Hisashi Tamaru, Ph.D.
Junior Principal Investigator
Gregor Mendel Institute of Molecular Plant Biology (GMI)
Dr. Bohr-Gasse 3
1030 Vienna
Austria/Europe

Email: hisashi.tamaru@gmi.oeaw.ac.at
GMI home page: http://www.gmi.oeaw.ac.at/en/home/

