Research Technician (Plant Epigenetics): Gregor Mendel Institute, Vienna, Austria 

A Research Technician position is available immediately for a highly trained individual to investigate the control and function of chromatin reconfiguration in the Arabidopsis thaliana male gametophyte (pollen) in the laboratory of Dr Hisashi Tamaru at the Gregor Mendel Institute (GMI), Vienna, Austria. You are expected to be enthusiastic, highly motivated, and capable of providing excellent technical support to the research group engaged on this research program. 
  
The GMI, which is integrated into the Vienna Biocenter Campus (VBC), is a basic plant research institute of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, and offers an excellent stimulating research environment with state-of-the-art equipment for all aspects of molecular biology and plant cultivation. The working language of the GMI is English. 

Current evidence suggests that large-scale epigenetic reconfigurations occur in the germ cell lineage of both animals and plants involving active DNA demethylation, de novo DNA methylation, and replacement of histones and their modifications. We aim to understand what determines the chromatin state and cell fate during pollen development. We found previously that the vegetative cell nucleus in pollen undergoes extensive de-condensation of centromeric heterochromatin (see EMBO Rep 10: 1015-1021, 2009). Following a forward genetic screen using an automated microscopy and image processing system, we identified a gene, IZANAGI (IGI), required for the chromatin remodeling in pollen and fertility, whose human homologue is implicated in dementia. The successful candidate will continue the same mutant screen to identify other components that functionally interact with IGI. 
  
You must hold a BSc degree or equivalent vocational qualifications. Experience of working with Arabidopsis genetics and molecular cell biology is essential. Experience in fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and immunostaining, and a strong interest in the application of live cell nucleus imaging to genetic mutant screening is highly desirable. You are expected to be independent and to actively contribute to the direction of the group through collaboration and innovation. 
  
Please send your application including CV, list of publications, statement of your research interests, and contact information for 2-3 referees to Dr Hisashi Tamaru by email at: 
hisashi.tamaru@gmi.oeaw.ac.at. This position is funded by the Austrian Science Fund (FWF) initially for 1 year with possible extension. Applicants will only be contacted if invited for interview. 
For further information on Tamaru lab, please visit: http://www.gmi.oeaw.ac.at/research-groups/hisashi-tamaru