The Department of Biological Sciences (http://www.biology.buffalo.edu) at the 
University at Buffalo (UB) is seeking outstanding applicants for a tenure-track Assistant 
Professor position in the field of Developmental Genomics. Candidates with interests 
in using whole-genome approaches in animals and/or plants to study fundamental 
biological processes including embryonic development, nervous system development, 
and creation/maintenance of specific organs and tissues are encouraged to apply. This 
position is offered as part of a strategic initiative in the area of Molecular Recognition in 
Biological Systems and Bioinformatics.

UB is the largest and most comprehensive campus in the SUNY system. We offer 
outstanding research facilities with opportunities for interdisciplinary interactions 
within UB, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, and the NYS Center of Excellence in 
Bioinformatics and Life Sciences. A generous startup package will be provided. The 
successful candidate will be expected to maintain an externally funded research 
program and to participate in graduate and undergraduate teaching. Applicants should 
have a Ph.D. (or other doctorate degree), at least three years of postdoctoral 
experience, a scholarly publication record and fluency in both spoken and written 
English. 
To apply, a curriculum vitae, description of current and future research interests, and 
reprints of at least three recent or in press publications must be electronically submitted 
to: www.ubjobs.buffalo.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=52921. In addition, three 
reference letters should be sent under separate cover, either electronically to 
devgenomics-search@buffalo.edu, or by mail to Developmental Genomics Search 
Committee, Department of Biological Sciences, 109 Cooke Hall, University at Buffalo, 
Amherst, NY 14260. Applications should be received by November 1, 2009. Review of 
applications will continue until the position is filled. Please consult our website for 
information about UB, our department and our community.
The University at Buffalo is an Equal Opportunity Employer/Recruiter.

