The Holt Lab at the University of Oklahoma in the Department of 
Microbiology and Plant Biology seeks a PhD student starting in the Fall 
2013 semester (start time may be during summer). 
PhD Student Requirements: Students must have a completed undergraduate 
degree in plant biology, molecular biology, or a related discipline at the 
time of admission to OU. Experience in plant molecular biology techniques, 
experimental design, and other relevant areas will be viewed favorably. The 
successful applicant may be a US or foreign citizen, but absolutely must 
have excellent English communication skills, including both comprehension 
and spoken English. Your motivation for graduate studies is an essential 
element of our selection process - what are your goals for attending 
graduate school, why would our research be a good fit for you, and what 
skills do you see yourself bringing to our team? The successful candidate 
will be compensated by a combination of graduate research (GRA) and 
teaching (GTA) assistantships. 
Our Research: Our current projects focus on the roles of transcription 
factors in development and stress responses. This includes an NSF CAREER 
funded project (from March 2012 to 2017) examining the roles of NUCLEAR 
FACTOR Y transcription factors during the initiation of flowering in the 
model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. 
For more information about the lab, please see our website: 
http://faculty-staff.ou.edu/H/Ben.F.Holt.III-1/ 
The University, Department, and Town: The University of Oklahoma (OU) is a 
Research I university with approximately 30,000 students. OU is located in 
Norman, Oklahoma - a very safe, mid-sized city (pop. ~120,000) with small 
town charm and low cost of living. In addition to the university, Norman 
has a vibrant and growing arts/music culture, many fine restaurants, and 
other typical amenities associated with nice university towns. Norman is 
located just 15 minutes south of Oklahoma City, which includes a large 
airport, NBA team, and other city attractions. 
Application Process: Interested students are STRONGLY encouraged to contact 
Dr. Ben Holt prior to applying (benholt@ou.edu<mailto:benholt@ou.edu>). All 
applicants must submit applications to both the department and Graduate 
College. Information on this process can be found at: 
http://mpbio.ou.edu/masters-and-phd 
 The University of Oklahoma is an equal opportunity institution 
www.ou.edu/eoo&lt;http://www.ou.edu/eoo> 