College of Life Sciences and Agriculture 
Department of Cellular, Molecular and Biomedical Sciences 
Tenure-Track Position in Proteomics 
 
The newly-formed Department of Cellular, Molecular and Biomedical 
Sciences seeks to fill a tenure-track position in Proteomics.  The 
ideal candidate will use a proteomics approach to address questions 
in any area of biology (e.g. human health, agriculture, environmental 
or basic cellular biology).  The proteomics position will be housed 
in the Hubbard Center for Genome Studies and join existing research 
groups in genomics and glycomics with a strong commitment to 
interdisciplinary research and teaching.  Appointment may be at any 
level.  The successful applicant will have a strong publication 
record, demonstrate the ability to develop/maintain a vigorous 
independent research program and actively participate in training of 
students at all levels. For more information go to: 
http://www.colsa.unh.edu/employment/ 
The University of New Hampshire is a high research activity 
institution with over 600 full-time faculty that provides 90 
comprehensive undergraduate programs and more than 70 graduate 
programs to 13,000 students.  UNH is located in Durham on a 188-acre 
campus, 60 miles north of Boston, 8 miles from the Atlantic coast, 
and convenient to New Hampshire's lakes and mountains. 
Applicants should submit a curriculum vitae, summary of research 
accomplishments and objectives, a brief description of teaching 
philosophy and goals, and the names of three references to: W. Kelley 
Thomas Ph.D., Chair, Proteomics Search Committee, Hubbard Center for 
Genome Studies, 35 Colovos Road Durham NH 03824. Review of 
applications will begin Feb. 1, 2008 and continue until the position 
is filled. 
The University actively seeks excellence through diversity among its 
administrators, faculty, staff and students and prohibits 
discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, 
national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, 
disability, veteran status, or marital status.  Application by 
members of all underrepresented groups is encouraged.
