[Arabidopsis] Univ. of New Hampshire Dean Search


The College of Life Sciences and Agriculture at the University of New Hampshire is seeking a 
Dean to lead its missions of excellence in undergraduate and graduate education, in research, 
and in public engagement.

The successful candidate for the Dean's position will have a demonstrated commitment to 
undergraduate and graduate education and research in biological sciences, natural resources, 
agriculture, and applied social sciences.  Prior administrative experience, including 
personnel and budget management and program development and evaluation are prerequisites. 
Fundraising experience and familiarity with land-grant universities are desirable.

The Dean is expected to be an effective advocate for the College's programs within and outside 
the University; facilitate improvements in undergraduate and graduate education; foster a 
climate to promote research, outreach and faculty development, and advance the University's 
affirmative action goals. The candidate's qualifications must include an earned doctorate, a 
record of teaching and scholarship appropriate to an appointment as a tenured professor in 
one of the College's departments.  Above all, the Dean must possess the leadership and 
communication skills to work effectively with faculty, students, and administrators within the 
University as well as with diverse constituencies outside the University.
The University of New Hampshire is a top-tier land-, sea-, and space-grant public university, 
serving more than 11,300 undergraduates and 2,400 graduate students. UNH is known for its 
beautiful campus of collegiate gothic, red brick buildings and ivy-covered walls.  Its 
proximity to Boston (60 miles), the Atlantic coast (8 miles) and the White Mountains and 
Lakes Region of New Hampshire add to the high quality of life enjoyed by members of the 
UNH community.

Additional details on UNH, the College and the Dean's position are available online: 
http://www.colsa.unh.edu/COLSAprofile.pdf. A copy of the advertisement for the Dean's 
position is also available: http://www.colsa.unh.edu/COLSADean.pdf.

The Search Committee is accepting applications now, and anticipates identifying semi-finalists 
by the end of October. Expressions of interest and nominations will be treated confidentially 
and should be sent as soon as possible to: UNH@eflasscociates.com.



-- 
Estelle M. Hrabak
Associate Professor, Dept. of Plant Biology
Co-Chair, Genetics Graduate Program
University of New Hampshire
46 College Rd.
Durham, NH  03824

Ph.  (603) 862-0716
FAX (603) 862-3784
