Graduate Study in Plant Sciences with Emphasis in Molecular Biology 

The Department of Botany at Oklahoma State University is seeking a qualified 
student to work on research projects in plant molecular biology and crop 
biotechnology. 

Research Areas: Ongoing research in the lab including (1) 
identification of new sources of resistance to aphid pests and 
characterization of their resistance mechanisms, (2) profiling of global 
changes in gene expression during host-pest interactions and functional 
analysis of those differentially expressed genes, (3) molecular mapping of 
resistance QTLs and developing DNA markers for marker-assisted selection 
(MAS), and (4) development of dedicated sorghum as feedstock for biofuel 
production. The student will conduct research on molecular mechanisms for 
resistance to insect pests in sorghum, a special crop for food and biofuel. 
The students may work on one of the selected topics for his/her thesis 
leading to a Ph.D. degree in plant sciences, particularly in either 
molecularly characterizing lignin-reduced bioenergy sorghum and its 
interactions with insect pests or defining the roles of candidate resistance 
genes against insects using standard molecular/genetic methods or functional 
genomic approaches. 

Stipend: This research assistantship includes a stipend of 
$16,045/year, tuition waiver and graduate student health insurance. 

Starting Date: May 1 or August 1, 2011 

Qualifications: M.S. or B.S. degree in botany, biology, 
microbiology, molecular biology or related disciplines. Successful 
candidates should also have a strong interest in crop science, molecular 
biology, functional genomics, and plant-insect interactions. Research 
experience in above described areas would be advantageous. Candidates should 
possess good written and verbal English skills, and be capable of working 
both independently and in a group. 

Application Procedure: Please send application via email to Prof. 
Huang (yinghua.huang@okstate.edu<mailto:yinghua.huang@okstate.edu>; Tel: 
1-405-624-4141 ext. 230) including a statement of research experience and 
interests, recent CV, three reference letters, and TOEFL and GRE (for 
candidates whose native language is not English) scores. Applicants are 
encouraged to visit our websites http://botany.okstate.edu< 
http://botany.okstate.edu/> and http://gradcollege.okstate.edu< 
http://gradcollege.okstate.edu/> for additional application information or 
to prepare an application package. 

Application Closing Date: Review of applications begins March 15, 2011, 
and opens until filled. 
