Performance Plants Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
Manager, Growth Facility 
 
 
 
Position Available Immediately 
 
 
 
 
 
The permanent position of Manager, Growth Facility is immediately available 
in the Company's state-of-the-art research facility in Kingston, Ontario. 
Applicants should have a strong background in plant science or related 
fields with a minimum qualification of a B.Sc. degree and at least 3 years 
prior experience as a greenhouse or growth facility manager.  The successful 
candidate will schedule and manage use of the plant growth facility by 
multi-disciplined research teams, to produce transgenic and other research 
plants.  Responsibilities also include provision of support services, such 
as watering and insect control, maintenance of security of transgenic plants 
and coordination with the facility engineers to deliver required growing 
conditions. The ideal candidate will be detail orientated, well-organized, 
enthusiastic and able to appreciate goal-based research and development. 
 
 
 
Performance Plants Inc. is a Canadian plant biotechnology company, whose 
mission is to develop, test and validate innovative plant technologies that 
optimize crop performance and agricultural productivity while improving food 
security, preserving the environment and promoting global sustainability. 
The Company's head office is located in the beautiful City of Kingston, 
situated on the shores of Lake Ontario. 
 
 
 
Interested applicants should forward their curriculum vitae (including the 
names of three references) to: 
 
 
 
Director, Human Resources 
 
Performance Plants Inc. 
 
700 Gardiners Road 
 
Kingston, Ontario 
 
K7M 3X9, 
 
Canada 
 
Email:  <mailto:humanresources@performanceplants.com> 
humanresources@performanceplants.com.      Fax: 1(613)-545-3618. 
 
 
 
Performance Plants Inc. offers a complete benefits package and is an equal 
opportunity employer.  Only applicants considered for an interview will 
receive further communication after their initial application.
