A Postdoctoral Position in Wheat Genetics 

Cereal aphids such as greenbug and Russian wheat aphid are the two major 
pests of wheat worldwide, and they cause millions of dollars of losses 
to this important food crop each year. We have been identifying sources 
of aphid resistance and developing high-performance wheat 
germplasm/cultivars with genetic resistance to the aphid pests. It is 
important to develop a better understanding of host-plant resistance. 
Thus, a postdoctoral position is available immediately in the Department 
of Plant and Soil Sciences at Oklahoma State University. This 
postdoctoral research follow will join a cooperative research project 
under Dr. Brett Carver of Oklahoma State University in collaboration 
with Dr. Yinghua Huang of the USDA-ARS. The incumbent will design and 
implement research experiments to identify resistance gene(s) and 
characterize genetic mechanisms of aphid resistance in winter wheat 
through genetic and genomic approaches. Research will also involve 
developing molecular markers and using genetic and breeding 
methodologies to identify genes controlling aphid resistance and to 
incorporate them into advanced breeding lines. 

Candidates should have a strong background in genetics, molecular 
biology, plant breeding, or related discipline. Experience in genomic 
technology, molecular mapping and QTL analysis, marker-assisted 
breeding, and statistical/bioinformatic methods are desirable. 
Documented ability to communicate effectively in English both writing 
research publication and spoken language. Review of applications will 
begin December 1, 2010, and continue until the position is filled. 

Please send a letter of research interest and professional goals, 
curriculum vitae, and contact information for three references by email 
to: yinghua.huang@ars.usda.gov or brett.carver@okstate.edu. For 
additional information, please contact: Dr. Yinghua Huang, USDA-ARS 
Plant Science Research Lab, 1301 N. Western Road, Stillwater, OK 74075, 
(405) 624-4141
