 
Performance Plants, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
Permanent Research Scientists 
 
Three Positions Available Immediately 
 
 
 
 
 
Two molecular biologists and one plant physiologist positions are 
immediately available in the Gene Discovery Program at the Company's 
Kingston research facility.  The candidates for the first molecular position 
should have demonstrated laboratory skills and experience in plant tissue 
culture and transgenic regeneration.  The candidates for the second 
molecular position should possess sound and broad molecular and biochemical 
laboratory skills.  The applicants for the plant physiologist position 
should have specialized research background working in the field of plant 
phenotypic and physiological analysis.  Applicants for these positions 
should possess a B.Sc. or M.Sc. degree, and have a strong background in 
plant biology.  Extensive experience and knowledge on plant anatomy and 
development will be a plus.  The candidates will ideally be 
detail-orientated, well-organized, enthusiastic and able to appreciate goal 
and team-based research and development. 
 
 
 
Performance Plants Inc. is a Canadian plant biotechnology company, whose 
mission is to discover, develop and validate innovative plant technologies 
that optimize crop performance and agricultural productivity while improving 
food & fuel security, preserving the environment and promoting global 
sustainability.  The Company's head office is located in the beautiful city 
of Kingston by Lake Ontario. 
 
 
 
Interested applicants should forward their curriculum vitae (including the 
names of three references) to: 
 
 
 
Human Resources, Performance Plants Inc. 
 
700 Gardiners Road 
 
Kingston, Ontario 
 
K7M 3X9, 
 
Canada 
 
Email:  <mailto:humanresources@performanceplants.com> 
humanresources@performanceplants.com.      Fax: 1-(613)-545-3618. 
 
 
 
Performance Plants Inc. offers a complete benefits package and is an equal 
opportunity employer.  Only applicants considered for an interview will 
receive further communication after their initial application.
