University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 
Department of Crop Sciences 
Assistant/Associate/Full Professor of Genomics of Perennial Biofuel Feedstocks 
 
A faculty position in genomics with an emphasis on the improvement of 
perennial grasses as ligno-cellulosic(LC) feedstocks for the emerging 
biofuels industry. This is a 9-month tenured or tenure track position 
with opportunity for summer appointment.  Responsibilities will be 
allocated as 75% research and 25% teaching in the Department of Crop 
Sciences, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.  Candidate will 
also be an integral part of the Urbana branch of the Energy 
Biosciences Institute (EBI), a joint institute funded by the energy 
company BP between the University of Illinois, University of 
California, Berkeley and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory 
(www.energybiosciencesinstitute.org). 
 
The successful applicant is expected to develop an 
internationally-recognized, externally-funded research program that 
will utilize and develop emerging structural and functional genomics 
approaches for the improvement of perennial LC fuel feedstock 
crops.  Candidate will initially be expected to conduct at least 50% 
of their research on LC crops within the EBI housed within the 
Institute for Genomic Biology, funding for this research effort will 
be provided by the EBI. The candidate is expected to specialize in 
perennial crops, for example grasses (such as switchgrass, Miscanthus 
or sugarcane) or tree species (such as Populus).  The successful 
candidate will utilize functional and/or structural genomic tools to 
advance perennial crop biology employing knowledge from current model 
and agronomic plant systems.  Approaches may include genetic and 
physical mapping, quantitative and association genetics, and the 
analysis of polymorphisms or pathways on a genome scale toward 
improvement of LC perennial crops as biofuel feedstocks.  The 
successful candidate will be expected to participate in the 
development of curricula for student education in bioenergy training. 
 
Candidates must have a Ph.D. and experience beyond the Ph.D. is 
preferable. The candidate must have research experience in molecular 
biology, genomics, crop science, or related disciplines. Prior 
experience preferred with structural and functional genomic analyses, 
ideally with perennials. The candidate must demonstrate outstanding 
potential to conduct and publish high-impact research, both 
independently and as part of the EBI team, attract extramural 
research funding, and develop an excellent teaching program.  For 
appointment at the Associate or Full Professor rank, the candidate 
must exhibit a very strong record of independent scholarship that 
includes credentials meeting the standards required to attain that 
level at the University of Illinois.  Such credentials include 
national and/or international recognition and impact in research and 
teaching in a related area, with clear evidence of obtaining 
competitive funding, initiating, completing, and publishing the 
results of successful projects. 
 
Salary will be commensurate with qualifications and experience with a 
comprehensive benefits package for eligible employees.  The position 
is available as soon as possible thereafter that the candidate is available. 
 
To assure full consideration, a cover letter including a detailed 
statement of research and teaching goals, curriculum vitae, a valid 
e-mail address, certified undergraduate and graduate transcripts, and 
three letters of reference must be submitted by March 15, 2008 to the 
address below.  Please cite announcement number 01/08A-11653 when 
applying.  The packet should be sent to:  Professor Robert Hoeft, 
Head, Department of Crop Sciences, University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign, 1102 South Goodwin Avenue, Urbana, 
Illinois  61801.  Telephone (217) 333-9480. 
 
For additional information please contact: Dr. Lila Vodkin, Search 
Committee Chair, Department of Crop Sciences, University of Illinois 
at Urbana-Champaign.  Telephone: (217) 244-6147; FAX (217) 
244-333-4582, email: <mailto:smoose@uiuc.edu>l-vodkin@uiuc.edu. 
 
Additional information about the Department of Crop Sciences, is 
available at <http://www.cropsci.uiuc.edu/>http://www.cropsci.uiuc.edu 
 
THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS IS AN AFFIRMATIVE ACTION/EQUAL 
OPPORTUNITY 
EMPLOYER.
