Position Title: Research Associate (Post Doc) 
 
The Department of Botany and Plant Pathology has an immediate opening for a Research 
Associate (Post Doc) to work on a cereal plant genome wide gene expression analysis.  This is a 
full-time, (1.0 FTE), 12-month, fixed-term position working in Dr. Pankaj Jaiswal's lab 
(http://www.science.oregonstate.edu/bpp/). 
 
How to Apply:    
To review the position description and apply, go to posting #0004455 
at http://oregonstate.edu/jobs.  When applying, you will be required to electronically submit your 
application, a Letter of Intent, and a Curriculum Vitae (including 3 references).  For full 
consideration, apply by 07/31/09 when review of applications will begin. 
 
This position is required to develop a comprehensive gene expression catalog of rice and other 
cereal plant genes in various the plant development stages. The project includes histological 
studies, whole genome transcriptome and proteome data generation and analysis. The 
incumbent will be responsible for designing microarray and whole genome transcriptome/digital 
gene expression experiment(s) using newer high throughput sequencing technologies developed 
by Illumina, 454-LifeSciences, etc. Development of methods suitable to the experimental 
conditions and plant material being investigated, carrying out the experiments on analysis of 
anatomical samples using microscopy and whole genome transcriptome, data analysis and 
publication of the results in peer reviewed journals and submission to major data repositories. 
Besides this, the incumbent will also participate in lab's outreach activities, help in mentoring 
undergraduates and graduate students. 
 
Successful candidate will work with existing lab personnel and various collaborators that includes 
project PIs, faculty, highly trained PhD. level bioinformatics specialists, software developers and 
the department's fellow postdoc and graduate students. 
 
 
Required qualifications: 
- PhD in Plant Biology, Molecular Biology, Genetics, Biochemistry, Biological 
Chemistry, Metabolomics, or related field. 
- Worked previously on gene expression data generation and analysis in their PhD studies or 
postdoctoral training. Demonstrated expertise in studying plant development, anatomy, histology, 
microarrays, gene expression, proteomics, genetics and general understanding of plant 
biochemistry and gene regulation. 
- Demonstrated ability for independent and critical thinking, excellent communication skills in oral 
and written presentations in English and ability to work in teams.
