Oregon State University 
Research Associate (Post Doc) 
 
 
To review the position description and apply, go to posting #0003896 at 
http://oregonstate.edu/jobs.  When applying, you will be required to 
electronically submit your application, a Letter of Intent, and a 
Curriculum Vitae (including 3 references).  Closing date 03/16/09. 
 
 
This is a full-time, (1.0 FTE), 12-month, fixed-term position working in 
Dr. Pankaj Jaiswal's lab (http://www.science.oregonstate.edu/bpp/). 
Research Associate (Post Doc), Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, 
Oregon State University, to work on model plant genome wide gene 
expression analysis.  Full-time (1.0 FTE), 12-month, fixed-term 
position.  The project includes histological studies, 
whole genome transcriptome and proteome data generation and analysis. 
 
Required qualifications include PhD in Plant Biology, Molecular Biology, 
Genetics, Biochemistry, Biological Chemistry, Metabolomics, or related 
field.  Worked previously on gene expression data generation and 
analysis in their PhD studies or postdoctoral training.  Has 
demonstrated expertise in studying plant development, anatomy, 
histology, microarrays, gene expression, proteomics, genetics and 
general understanding of plant biochemistry and gene regulation. 
Incumbent must have a demonstrated ability for independent and critical 
thinking, excellent communication skills in oral and written 
presentations in English and ability to work in teams. 
 
Preferred qualifications include a demonstrated commitment to promote 
and enhance diversity; experience working in wet lab research 
specializing in microarray, high throughput genome and whole genome 
transcription and/or Digital gene expression using newer sequencing and 
microarray technologies such as those sequencing technologies developed 
by Illumina, 454-LifeSciences, etc, ; and biochemical and/or regulatory 
pathways, enzyme kinetics, gene regulation. 
 
Experience with Linux and 
Windows operating system, programming in Perl, Java, C++ and HTML editing. 
 
Oregon State University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity 
Employer and has a policy of being responsive to dual-career needs. 

