Deadline extended until July 31st. 
Also, if you are attending the following meetings please feel free to contact us to learn more about 
this position and the project: 
 
ASPB-Plant Biology 2009 : Contact Pankaj Jaiswal 
BSA Botany & Mycology 2009: Contact Aaron Liston 
 
Position Title: 
   Research Associate (Senior Postdoc) / Research Associate (Postdoc) 
 
Working Title: Plant Ontology Project Coordinator 
 
The Plant Ontology Consortium (www.plantontology.org) is seeking applicants for a full-time 
position of scientific curator who will coordinate the Consortium’s efforts. The Plant Ontology 
Consortium is a collaboration among researchers at Oregon State University, Cornell University 
and New York Botanical Garden. The project is funded by the National Science Foundation. The 
Consortium also collaborates with the curators of many model organism databases including rice, 
Arabidopsis, maize, grasses, legumes, Solanaceae, Bryophytes, Rosaceae and plant 
phylogenomics. The project aims to develop shared vocabularies on plant anatomy and growth 
and developmental stages, to describe patterns of phenotype(s) and gene expression. For more 
details on the project please see the publications (PubMed IDs:18194960, 17142475, 16905665, 
18629207) 
 
 
 
How to Apply: 
To review the position description in detail and apply, go to posting #0004322 
athttp://oregonstate.edu/jobs.  When applying, you will be required to electronically submit your 
application, a cover letter citing your interest in the position and your experience, and a 
CV/resume including 3 references.  Closing date 7/31/09. 
 
Required qualifications: 
Ph.D. in an aspect of plant biology (e.g. Development, Physiology, Biochemistry, Genetics, Plant 
Pathology, Systematics) and/or genomics, Phylogenomics, Systematics, Plant Biology and Plant 
Anatomy.  Available immediately to start working on the project. Demonstrated ability for 
independent, critical thinking and excellent communication, networking and teamwork skills. 

