Ref: http://my.aspb.org/networking/opening.asp?id=99760 

Description & Details 

Graduate Research Assistant (GRA) Position in the Areas of Genomics, 
Bioinformatics and Molecular and Cellular Biology at Oregon State 
University. 

Jaiswal lab in the Department of Botany and Plant Pathology at Oregon State 
University (OSU) is looking to hire qualified and motivated candidate(s) for 
graduate research assistant (GRA) position(s) (Ph.D). 

The primary research focus in the lab is on studying the processes of 
flowering time and seed development in crop plants. These two developmental 
features of a plant determine how a plant reproduces on time and generate 
fruit/seeds to contribute to our nutritional needs by way of quality and 
yield. We are interested in studying these two developmental features and 
plant's response in association with the abiotic stresses like salt, drought 
and photo period. The project includes genome-wide mapping of 
genomic/genetic loci (genes) in rice, sorghum and maize that control gene 
expression and interactions between them to influence changes in the 
flowering time and seed development. We use molecular and genetic 
applications such as the genetic diversity, mutant phenotypes, genome 
sequences, gene expression and bioinformatics approaches, to provide 
mechanistic insights into the plant development and its adaptation to the 
global climate change. Lab encourages young scientists and students to use 
cutting edge technologies on genome sequencing, gene expression, plant 
development, and bioinformatics. The lab has a substantial program in 
interdisciplinary computational biology tool and infrastructure development. 
We collaborate extensively with computational biology scientists at Center 
for Genome Research and Biocomputing, Plant and Gene Ontology projects and 
Gramene database. Experience of working in a biology research lab, 
bioinformatics training and programming skills are a plus. 

If interested in graduate student opportunities in the lab, please send a 
detailed resume, statement of research interests and contact details (phone, 
email) for at least three professional references. Students will have an 
option to join the graduate programs offered by either the Department of 
Botany and Plant Pathology (http://bpp.oregonstate.edu/graduate-programs) or 
the Molecular and Cell Biology program (MCB: 
http://www.mcb.oregonstate.edu/graduate/forms). Both the programs require 
GRE scores along with TOEFL scores for International Students and/or 
students with non-English speaking backgrounds. 

Selected/shortlisted candidates must be approved by Graduate Studies 
Committee and must apply to Graduate School for acceptance into a program 
and be admitted prior to joining the lab. Applicants must meet Graduate 
School requirements. 

How to Apply / Contact 

For additional information and sending the application, contact Dr. Pankaj 
Jaiswal (email: jaiswalp@science.oregonstate.edu), Dept. of Botany and Plant 
Pathology, 2082 Cordley Hall, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR, 
97331-2902, USA. Phone: +1-541-737-8471, Fax: +1-541-737-3573. 

Oregon State University is an equal opportunity employer. 
