Position Title: Research Associate (Senior Postdoc) / Research Associate (Postdoc) 
Working Title: Plant Ontology Project Coordinator 
 
How to Apply: 
-------------- 
To review the position description and apply, go to posting #0004322 
at http://oregonstate.edu/jobs.  When applying, you will be required to electronically submit your 
application, a cover letter citing your interest in the position and your experience, and a 
CV/resume including 3 references.  Closing date 7/15/09. 
 
Position description: 
--------------------- 
The Plant Ontology Consortium (www.plantontology.org) is seeking applicants for a full-time 
position of scientific curator who will coordinate the Consortium’s efforts. The Plant Ontology 
Consortium is a collaboration among researchers at Oregon State University, Cornell University 
and New York Botanical Garden. The Consortium also collaborates with the curators of many 
model organism databases including rice, Arabidopsis, maize, grasses, legumes, Solanaceae, 
bryophytes and plant phylogenomics. The project aims to develop shared vocabularies on plant 
anatomy and growth and developmental stages, to describe patterns of phenotype(s) and gene 
expression. For more details on the project please see the publications (PubMed IDs:18194960, 
17142475, 16905665, 18629207) 
 
 
Duties / Responsibilities: 
-------------------------- 
Develop and refine the ontologies with the PO curators in participating databases and core labs, 
annotate gene products and stocks with the vocabularies in the ontologies, participate in the 
development and application of methods to streamline and enhance the quality of annotations, 
manage website content, set project milestones, organize and moderate project meetings,  and 
work with the project members to deliver the database releases and project reports on strict 
timelines. 
 
 
Required qualifications: 
------------------------ 
Ph.D. in an aspect of plant biology (e.g. Development, Physiology, Biochemistry, Genetics, Plant 
Pathology, Systematics) and/or genomics, Phylogenomics, Systematics, Plant Biology and Plant 
Anatomy.  Available immediately to start working on the project. Demonstrated ability for 
independent, critical thinking and excellent communication, networking and teamwork skills. 
 Previous work in any one or more areas of Plant Development, Plant Physiology, Plant 
Biochemistry, Plant Genetics and/or genomics, Plant Pathology, Museum specimen curation, 
Phylogenomics, Systematics, Plant Biology and Plant Anatomy.  Excellent communication skills 
in English is a must.  Experience in teaching and outreach. Familiarity with Plant Development 
and Anatomy.  Able to travel and attend 3-4 meetings/year of the PO consortium. 
 
In order to be considered for the Research Associate (senior Postdoc) position, the candidate 
must have 3 or more years of postdoctoral/scientist research experience and supporting 
publications in peer reviewed international journals. The selection committee will judge the 
candidate based on the qualifications below; in addition, to showing the ability to lead on a 
scientific project as an independent researcher. 
 
 
Preferred qualifications: 
------------------------- 
Past experience in project coordination, large scale gene expression and phenotype evaluation, 
familiarity with basic UNIX commands, spreadsheets, and commonly used biological research 
tools such as BLAST and Literature Database search is desired.  A working knowledge of PERL 
and/or SQL will be considered an asset but not required.
