

Ph.D. fellowships in Biotechnology


Copenhagen Graduate School of Biotechnology at The Royal Veterinary and Agricultural University, KVL, wishes to 
appoint at least two Ph.D. fellows in Biotechnology. The Ph.D. fellows will spend half of the Ph.D. study at a 
university abroad as indicated in each of the projects below.  The fellowships are expected to run from 
1/11-2006 or soon thereafter to 31/10-2009. 


Job description
With reference to the project manager, the work of the Ph.D. fellow will consist mainly of duties in connection 
with research and development within microbial, animal or plant biotechnology. The stipends will be made 
available in the following areas (contact persons are indicated):

1.	Expression profiling of separating dehiscence zone cells by microdissection. (Dr. Peter Ulvskov, 
p.ulvskov@dias.kvl.dk, DIAS and Prof. Jeremy Roberts, Univerisity of Nottingham, UK).
2.	The impact of cyanogenic glucoside polymorphism in Populus trees on insect resistance and nitrogen 
turnover. (Prof. S*ren Bak, bak@kvl.dk, KVL and Prof. Stefan Jansson, Ume* Plant Science Center, Sweden)
3.	Regulatory interactions between different polyketide biosynthesis pathways in Fusarium gramineum 
(Prof. Henriette Giese, heg@kvl.dk, KVL and Prof. H. Corby Kistler, USDA, Minnesota, USA).
4.	Mechanism behind the host specificity of Salmonella serotypes (Prof. John Elmerdahl Olsen, jeo@kvl.dk, 
KVL and Prof. Josep Casadesus, Universidad de Sevilla, Spain).
5.	Biocontrol interactions between Clonostachys rosea and pathogenic Fusarium spp. –focusing on 
mycotoxins in head blight and foot rot in wheat. (Dr. Dan Funck Jensen, dfj@kvl.dk, KVL and Dr Frank Maier, 
University of Hamburg, Germany).
6.	Biosynthesis of avenacins – secondary metabolites with antifungal activity. (Dr. Merete Albrechtsen, 
m.albrechtsen@dias.kvl.dk, DIAS and Dr. Anne Osbourn, John Innes Centre, UK).
7.	Biosynthesis of the pectic polysaccharide rhamnogalacturonan I (RGI) in Arabidopsis thaliana 
(Prof. Henrik Scheller, hvs@kvl.dk,  KVL and Prof. Markus Pauly, Michigan State University, USA).
8.	The molecular connection between chlorophyll biosynthesis and signaling. (Dr. Poul Erik Jensen, 
peje@kvl.dk, KVL and Dr. *sa Strand, Ume* Plant Science Center, Sweden).
9.	Identification of the biosynthetic pathway for the plant hormone auxin. (Dr. Barbara Halkier, 
bah@kvl.dk, KVL and Dr. Karin Ljung, Ume* Plant Science Center, Sweden).
10.	Descriptor based annotation of non-coding RNAs. (Dr. Jan Gorodkin, gorodkin@bioinf.kvl.dk, KVL and 
Prof. Peter Stadler, University of Leipzig, Germany).
11.	Imaging ABC transporter function in polar auxin transport (Prof. Alexander Schulz, als@kvl.dk, KVL and 
Dr. Markus Geisler, University of Z*rich, Switzerland).

On the assumption that Copenhagen Graduate School in Biotechnology in 2006 receives further funding from the 
Danish Research Council, stipends in the following areas may also be available:
 
12.	Live DIVA vaccines towards classical swine fever (Senior Scientist *se Uttenthal, aau@dfvf.dk, 
DFVF and Senior Scientist, DVM. Klaus Depner, FLI Insel Riems, Germany).
13.	Why do lactic acid bacteria have a partial requirement for purine nucleotides? (Associate Professor 
Jan Martinussen, jma@biocentrum.dtu.dk, DTU and Associate professor Fran*oise Bringel, Universit* Louis 
Pasteur-CNRS, Strasbourg, France



Qualification requirements

In connection with the appointment to the posts special importance will be attached to the applicants having the 
professional and personal qualifications stated below: 

*	Passed Master’s degree in relation to the above subject areas 

The Ph.D. fellows are also required to have research potential, to be enterprising and to possess good 
interpersonal skills.

Terms of employment

The posts will be filled according to the Agreement between the Danish Ministry of Finance and the Danish 
Confederation of Professional Associations. The post is covered by the Protocol on Job Structure. 

The position as Ph.D. fellow requires the applicant to be approved for admission to the Ph.D. programme at 
KVL or DTU when accepted for the post. 

Questions

For further information about the posts, please contact Professor Michael Gjedde Palmgren, phone: 
(+45) 3528 3413, e mail: palmgren@kvl.dk. Further information about the Copenhagen Graduate School of 
Biotechnology can be found at www.fobina.dk.

General questions regarding Ph.D. programmes should be directed to Course Administration c/o special 
advisor Michael Cleve Hansen, tel. + 45 3528 2056 or head clerk Lillian Zeuthen Bj*rnseth on 
tel. +45 3528 2172. Further information on Ph.D. programmes is available at www.kvl.dk >Present students > 
Ph.D. programmes > Regulations. 

Application

The application form of Copenhagen Graduate School of Biotechnology has to be used by candidates applying 
for the studentships and can be downloaded from www.fobina.dk > Opslag. Applications must contain a full 
curriculum vitae including documentation for academic degrees, a complete list of publications and copies 
of relevant publications that the applicant wishes to have included in the assessment. Additional material 
demonstrating the applicants scientific and teaching abilities can be included. 

In addition to the material the applicant wishes to be included in the assessment, the Assessment Committee 
may include further material in their assessment of the applicant. In such circumstances, it is the 
responsibility of the applicant, on request, to send the material to the Committee.

Receipt of the application will not be acknowledged, but the applicant will be kept continuously informed of the 
progress of the application. 

The applicant will be assessed according to the Ministry of Research and Information Technology Executive 
Order no. 820 of 31 August 2000.

Applications marked 625-23 must be submitted in 3 copies (including all enclosures in 3 sets) to KVL 
(The Royal Veterinary and Agricultural University), Copenhagen Graduate School of Biotechnology, Department 
of Plant Biology, Thorvaldsensvej 40, DK-1871 Frederiksberg C, Copenhagen, Denmark no later than 29/9 2006 
at 12:00. An Electronic copy of the application and all documents in one file on a CD must be enclosed.

