Plant/Microbial Metabolic Engineering 
 
Assistant/Associate Professor 
 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech) 
 
The Department of Plant Pathology, Physiology & Weed Science at Virginia 
Tech seeks applicants for a tenure track position in Plant/Microbial 
Metabolic Engineering. This appointment will be at the Assistant or 
Associate Professor level. Research focus should be on plant metabolic 
engineering problems, for example in bio-design, bio-processing, bio-fuels, 
production of novel compounds, improved quality or yield of existing plant 
natural products, or other value-added traits. Programs focusing on 
microbial metabolic engineering towards the biotransformation of plant 
products will also be considered. The successful applicant is expected to: 
1) develop extramurally funded research programs that become internationally 
recognized, 2) mentor students, and 3) team teach graduate-level core 
courses in plant metabolism. Additional information about the department can 
be found at http://www.ppws.vt.edu. 
 
Applicants must complete the application for posting number 071258 at 
https://www.jobs.vt.edu.  A complete application must include a cover 
letter, curriculum vitae, and a statement of research & teaching  interests, 
all to be submitted on-line by January 15th.  In addition, applicants must 
arrange to have three letters of reference submitted directly to Ms. Donna 
Ford wlwnd@vt.edu by Jan 15th.  Review of applications will begin on that 
date and will continue until the position is filled. 
 
 
 
Virginia Tech has a strong commitment to the principles of diversity, 
inclusion, and to maintaining a work and learning environment that is free 
of all forms of discrimination. As a result this institution does not 
tolerate discrimination or harassment on the basis of age, color, 
disability, gender, national origin, political affiliation, race, religion, 
sexual orientation, or veteran status. Anyone having questions concerning 
discrimination should contact the Office of Equal Opportunity.
