*PHYSIOLOGIST*. The Biology Department of Franklin & Marshall College (
www.fandm.edu/biology) invites applications for a tenure-track ASSISTANT
PROFESSOR position in physiology, beginning Fall 2012. We welcome applicants
with interests in any area of physiology, preferably plant physiology or
interactions between plants and other organisms. Candidates should have the
Ph.D. and demonstrated strengths in teaching and research.

The teaching load is 3/2 and includes: (1) lecture and laboratory sections
of a team-taught sophomore-level course in physiology and development, (2)
an advanced laboratory elective in the candidate's area of expertise, and
(3) participation in the College's general education curriculum. Successful
candidates will have opportunities to participate in our interdisciplinary
programs: Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Bioinformatics, Animal
Behavior, Neuroscience, and Public Health.

F&M has a tradition of excellence in faculty/student collaborative research
in the sciences. In 2007, the Biology Department moved into a 100,000 sq.
ft. state-of-the-art interdisciplinary teaching and research facility, which
includes a research-grade plant growth facility, aquatic rooms, and a
vivarium.

Applicants should arrange to have letters sent from three referees, and
should submit a letter of application, *curriculum vitae*, copies of
graduate and undergraduate transcripts, teaching evaluations, a statement of
teaching philosophy, and a research statement that includes plans for
actively engaging undergraduates in research. Electronic applications will
*not* be accepted. Priority will be given to complete applications received
by September 23, 2011. Applications should be sent to Dr. Joseph Thompson,
Search Committee Chair, Department of Biology, Franklin & Marshall College,
P.O. Box 3003, Lancaster PA 17604. Ph: 717-291-4118; Fax: 717-358-4548;
e-mail: janice.kaufman@fandm.edu. Franklin & Marshall College is a highly
selective liberal arts college with a demonstrated commitment to cultural
pluralism.* Equal Opportunity Employer.* 
