We view Arabidopsis as a premiere model for systems biology of the cell and encourage 
Arabidopsis researches to apply for the faculty position recently posted by our 
department: 
 
Systems Biology Faculty Position (Assistant Professor) 
The Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry at Brown 
University announces the opening of a tenure-track faculty position effective July 1, 
2009.  Qualifications include a Ph.D. and/or M.D. degree with relevant postdoctoral 
research training and a record of excellence in research. The successful applicant will be 
an experimentalist in the general area of cell biology who will be expected to pursue an 
independent, externally-funded research program with a focus on systems-level 
approaches to investigate complex biological phenomena. Special attention will be given 
to quantitative bioimaging methodologies to investigate biological systems and networks. 
The applicant should demonstrate a commitment to graduate and undergraduate 
education, and to be an active member of the NIH-funded predoctoral training program in 
Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry. Research space will be provided in a 
new, state-of-the-art facility with access to modern core facilities. 
 
Applicants should arrange for at least three confidential reference letters to be sent under 
separate cover to the contact address. Review of applications, which should include a 
curriculum vitae, recent representative publications and a description of research 
interests, will commence on December 1, 2008, and will continue until the position is 
filled. Contact address: Dr. Stephen Helfand, c/o Ms. Joan Boyles, Department of 
Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry, Brown University, Box G-L274, 
Providence, RI 02912. Please submit one copy of application materials to the above 
address, and an electronic version (preferably in PDF format) to 
MCB_FacultySearch@brown.edu. 
 
Brown University is an EEO/AA Employer and welcomes applications from women and 
minorities.
