Structural Biology Faculty Position at Brown University (Assistant 
Professor) 

The Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry at Brown 
University announces the opening of a tenure-track faculty position with a 
start date of July 1, 2013. Qualifications include a Ph.D. and/or M.D. 
degree with relevant postdoctoral research training and a record of 
excellence in research. The successful applicant will be an experimentalist 
in the area of X-ray crystallography who will be expected to pursue an 
independent, externally-funded research program. The applicant should 
demonstrate a commitment to graduate and undergraduate education, and will 
have the opportunity to participate in pre-doctoral training programs 
within the Division of Biology and Medicine and the campus at large. 
Research 
space will be provided in a new, state-of-the-art facility with access to 
X-ray equipment, crystallization robotics, NMR spectrometers and 
biophysical analysis instrumentation, such as ITC, DSC, CD and mass 
spectrometry (LTQ Orbitrap), among others. Recent upgrades to the Brown 
University structural biology infrastructure include new X-ray 
crystallography instrumentation (Rigaku FR-E+ SuperBright with VariMax-HF 
ArcSec optics, a Saturn 944 CCD detector and ACTOR robotic crystal mounting 
system), a BIOSAXS-1000 small angle X-ray scattering instrument, and the 
addition of an 850 MHz NMR spectrometer. 

Candidates should submit a curriculum vitae with a complete bibliography, a 
3-5 page description of research plans, a 1-page teaching statement and up 
to 3 representative publications. These materials should be submitted 
electronically to http://www.interfolio.com/apply/14669. Three confidential 
reference letters should be submitted separately to the same website 
(instructions for requesting confidential letters of recommendation are 
also provided on the same website). Review of applications will commence on 
*November 1, 2012*, and will continue until the position is filled. 

*Brown University is an equal opportunity (EEO/AA) employer and is 
committed to increasing the diversity of its faculty. It welcomes 
nominations and applications from minorities, women, and individuals with 
varied experiences, perspectives and backgrounds, which would enrich the 
university's research, teaching and service missions.* 