FACULTY POSITION 
DEVELOPMENTAL GENETICS 
 
 
The Department of Biological Sciences at Vanderbilt University seeks candidates to fill an open 
rank faculty position in developmental genetics. Research of candidates will be considered in all 
areas of development, with emphasis on early development in vertebrates (including stem cell 
research) or plant developmental genetics.  We desire candidates whose interests broadly 
overlap the interests of our current faculty. Central criteria for the position are excellence in 
research and the ability to teach undergraduate and graduate students with a high level of 
effectiveness.  Women and under-represented minority candidates are especially encouraged to 
apply.  For information about the Department, visit our 
website: http://sitemason.vanderbilt.edu/biosci.  For information about developmental biology at 
Vanderbilt, see http://www.mc.vanderbilt.edu/devbio/.  Applicants should send a letter of 
application together with a curriculum vitae, a statement of current and future research interests, 
three letters of recommendation, teaching evaluations, if available, and selected reprints to: 
Developmental Genetics Search Committee, Department of Biological Sciences, Vanderbilt 
University, VU Station B 351634, Nashville, TN 37235-1634 U.S.A.   Review of applicants will 
begin October 1, 2009, and will continue until the position has been filled.  Vanderbilt University is 
an Affirmative Action / Equal Opportunity Employer. 
 
 
       We are very interested in hiring an excellent plant developmental biologist, especially 
someone who will interact productively with existing faculty in our department and with the larger 
developmental biology community at Vanderbilt. Our department has excellent greenhouse and 
other types of research facilities. 
       If you have any questions, do not hesitate to email or call me for further information. 
               Best wishes, 
               Carl Johnson
 
Carl Johnson, Ph.D., Professor 
Dept. of Biological Sciences, U-8211 BSB/MRB III 
VU Station B, Box 35-1634 
Vanderbilt University 
Nashville, TN  37235  USA 
TEL: 615-322-2384 
FAX: 615-936-0205 
Email: carl.h.johnson@vanderbilt.edu 
Website: http://www.cas.vanderbilt.edu/johnsonlab/
