Improving the Efficiency of Photosynthesis:
Functional Genomics of the Green Algal Carbon Concentrating Mechanism

Stanford, CA

A postdoctoral position is available in the laboratory of Dr. Martin
Jonikas at the Carnegie Institution for Science, Department of Plant
Biology in Stanford, CA.

The growth rate of plants is often limited by carbon fixation. The key
carbon-fixing enzyme RuBisCo works best under higher CO2 levels than
exist in the atmosphere today. Some algae are able to increase their
rate of carbon fixation by concentrating CO2 around RuBisCo. We aim to
characterize the components of an algal CO2-concentrating mechanism
and transfer them into crop plants. We believe this may improve crop
plant growth rate, and reduce requirements for nitrogen.

We are recruiting a post-doctoral fellow to lead and execute this
project. We are in the late stages of developing a cutting-edge
genomics tool enabling precise measurement of growth rates of hundreds
of thousands of Chlamydomonas mutants under conditions of interest.
The first step in this project is to identify nearly all of the
components of the CO2-concentrating mechanism by using this tool to do
a quantitative screen. From there, you will be able to further characterize
hits of your choosing.

I am dedicated to providing my lab members with a nurturing training
environment. The data we collect will build a solid foundation on
which you can develop an independent research program.

We are physically located on Stanford campus and have access to many
of its resources in addition to our own. Moreover, Stanford's
excellent location and year-round sunny and warm climate offers a
pleasant setting for work and home life.

The ideal applicant will be highly motivated, have a PhD degree, a
strong academic record, research experience in the biological
sciences, and fluent English language skills.

To apply, please e-mail a statement of research interests, CV and have
three letters of recommendations sent to jonikas1@stanford.edu.
Informal inquiries are also welcome. 
