Subject:
[Arabidopsis] Postdoctoral Position, UT Austin


   An NSF funded Postdoctoral position is available as part of a
   collaborative project to explore the evolution of physiology in
   Arabidopsis thaliana.  The goal of the project is to identify and
   characterize genes underlying naturally-occurring variation in drought
   adaptation using genome-wide molecular techniques.  Our approach
   focuses on screens of A. thaliana accessions from around the world,
   QTL mapping, and studies of natural variation in gene expression.  A
   position at UT Austin is available to pursue research on various
   aspects of evolutionary genetics, including genome-wide expression
   studies and fine-mapping efforts to characterize and clone
   ecologically-important QTL.  Additional information about research in
   the Juenger lab can be found at:
   
   [1]https://webspace.utexas.edu/tjuenger/www/
   
   We are looking for a highly motivated individual with a Ph.D degree
   and with the demonstrated ability to carry out outstanding research in
   Plant Genetics. Ideal candidates would have experience in
   high-throughput genotyping or gene expression studies and a strong
   background in molecular biology. Preference will be given to
   candidates with the following skills: DNA sequencing, cloning of PCR
   products, plant transformation, RT-PCR, and SNP genotyping.  We also
   emphasize the ability to interact and work collaboratively with
   others. The post-doc will co-ordinate closely with our physiological
   genetic and computational efforts, as well as a technician, graduate
   students, and undergraduate researchers at UT Austin.
   
   Application review begins immediately and will continue until the
   position is filled.  Applications should include a brief cover letter
   outlining qualifications and interests, curriculum vitae, and the
   names and addresses of three references (please combine information
   into a single PDF, if possible).  Send applications to
   
   Tom Juenger
   Section of Integrative Biology
   University of Texas at Austin
   1 University Station C0930
   Austin, Tx 78712
   512-232-5751
   
   or via e-mail to [2]tjuenger@mail.utexas.edu
   
   The University of Texas at Austin is an affirmative action, equal
   opportunity employer committed to excellence through diversity.

References

   1. https://webspace.utexas.edu/tjuenger/www/
   2. mailto:tjuenger@mail.utexas.edu
