Post Doctoral Research Associate -Plant Molecular Genetics/Plant 
Genomics/Plant Proteomics 
 
Currently accepting applications for a Post Doctoral Research Associate in 
the Dept. of Agriculture & Natural Resources, Delaware State University, 
Dover, DE starting in the end of 2008.  Please send an email with a 
current CV/resume, and letter of interest to Dr. Venu Kalavacharla ( 
<mailto:vkalavacharla@desu.edu> vkalavacharla@desu.edu, phone: 
302-857-6492). 
 
 
 
 
General Description of the Job 
 
 
Applicants for this position will have a Ph.D. in molecular 
genetics/genomics/proteomics with advanced experience and interest in 
molecular genetics, genomics, proteomics and plant tissue culture. 
Experience working with the genetics of plant host-pathogen interactions, 
construction of genomic and cDNA libraries, RNA interference is an added 
plus. 
 
 
 
 
Essential Functions 
 
 
The following are the functions essential to performing this job. 
 
1.      Conduct plant molecular genetics/genomics/proteomics research and 
manage laboratory, greenhouse and growth room experiments. 
 
2.      Communicate effectively with faculty, students, DSU Administrators 
and professional groups. 
 
3.      Provide leadership by encouraging excellence in research, 
education and outreach activities that are undertaken by the Plant 
Molecular Genetics & Genomics group. 
 
4.      Mentor undergraduate and graduate students, technician, and other 
laboratory staff in research programs. 
 
5.      Serves as a representative for activities of the Plant Molecular 
Genetics & Genomics group and promote its best interests. 
 
 
 
Other Functions 
 
Individuals in this job may be assigned one or more of the following tasks 
on a rotating or as-needed basis. 
 
1.      Mentor laboratory research personnel including undergraduate and 
graduate students and technician. 
 
2.      High school and Community outreach. 
 
3.      Research in area(s) of expertise. 
 
 
 
 
Required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities 
 
 
The individual in this job must possess these skills and abilities or be 
able to explain and demonstrate that they can perform the essential 
functions of the job, with or without reasonable accommodation, using some 
other combination of skills and abilities. 
 
1.      Research experience in molecular genetics and genomics 
 
2.      Ability to work successfully with diverse students and faculty. 
 
3.      Effective written and verbal communication skills. 
 
 
 
 
Qualification Standards 
 
 
1.      Earned Ph.D. level degree and work experience in Plant Molecular 
Biology, Plant Molecular Genetics/Proteomics/Genomics/Plant 
Pathology/Plant Biology 
 
2.      Experience in advanced molecular genetic, genomic and proteomic 
techniques 
 
3.      Not required but added plus: Prior experience in plant tissue 
culture, host-pathogen interactions and/or working with model or non-model 
plant species, management of laboratory, greenhouse, and growth room 
experiments and mentoring students. 
 
 
 
 
Performance Standards 
 
 
The criteria for evaluation in this position include, but are not limited 
to, the following: 
 
1.      Successful completion of the tasks listed as essential functions. 
 
2.      Publication and professional presentations. 
 
3.      Lab management and mentoring abilities. 
 
 
 
 
 
Delaware State University is an equal opportunity employer and does not 
discriminate because of race, creed, national or ethnic origin, sex or 
disability. 
 
 
 
 
 
Venu (Kal) Kalavacharla Ph.D. 
 
Plant Molecular Genetics & Genomics 
 
Department of Agriculture & Natural Resources 
 
Delaware State University 
 
Dover, DE 19901 
 
Ph:(302) 857-6492 
 
Fax:(302) 857-6402 
 
Email: vkalavacharla@desu.edu
