Post Doctoral Research Associate-Plant Molecular Genetics, Dover, DE 
 
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS IS:  January 4, 2008 
 
The College of Agriculture and Related Sciences at Delaware State 
University is seeking qualified applicants for the position of Post 
Doctoral Research Associate-Plant Molecular Genetics.  Applicants must 
have experience working with the genetics of plant host-pathogen 
interactions, construction of genomic and cDNA libraries; RNA interference 
is an added plus. 
 
Essential functions of the job include: 
1.  Conduct plant molecular genetics and genomics research and manage 
laboratory, greenhouse and growth room experiments. 
2.  Communicate effectively with faculty, students, University 
administrators and professional groups. 
3.  Provide leadership by encouraging excellence in research, education 
and outreach activities that are undertaken by the Plant Molecular 
Genetics and Genomics Group. 
4.  Mentor undergraduate and graduate students, technicians, and other 
laboratory staff in research programs. 
5.  Serve as a representative for activities of the Plant Molecular 
Genetics & Genomics Group and promote its best interests. 
 
Other functions: 
1.  Perform high school and community outreach. 
2.  Perform research in area(s) of this expertise. 
 
REQUIRED, KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, and ABILITIES: 
1.  Research experience in molecular genetics and genomics. 
2.  Ability to work successfully with diverse students and faculty. 
3.  Effective written and verbal communication skills. 
 
QUALIFICATION STANDARDS: 
1.  Earned Ph.D. level degree and work experience in Plant Molecular 
Biology, Plant Molecular Genetics, or Genomics/Plant Pathology/Plant 
Biology. 
2.  Experience in advanced molecular genetic, genomic and proteomic 
techniques. 
3.  Added Plus:  Prior experience in plant tissue culture, host-pathogen 
interactions and/or working with model or non-model plant species, 
management of laboratory, greenhouse, and growth room experiments and 
mentoring students. 
 
Letter of interest, resume and letters of recommendation can be submitted 
to: 
 
Dr. Venu Kalavacharla, Department of Agriculture and Related Sciences, 
Delaware State University, 1200 N. DuPont Highway, Dover, DE  19901. 
Phone: (302) 857-6492 or vkalavacharla@desu.edu or apply online at 
www.desu.edu <http://www.desu.edu/>  under the job opportunities link. 
 
 
 
Delaware State University is an equal opportunity employer and does not 
discriminate because of race, creed, national or ethnic origin, sex or 
disability.
