Post Doctoral position (3 years) in characterizing the function receptor-like kinases in ROS 
signaling and perception 
 
 
The Plant Stress Group (http://www.helsinki.fi/biosci/plantstress/) at the University of Helsinki is 
looking for a post doctoral fellow for a three-year post doc position. The position will be filled at 
the latest 1st of June 2009. Applications are evaluated until a suitable candidate is found. 
 
Several receptor-like kinases (RLKs) are transcriptionally regulated in response to ozone and 
other biotic and abiotic stresses. We have identified several RLKs from distinct subfamilies in a 
targeted mutant screen for ozone-sensitivity. RLKs are prime candidates for perception of 
extracellular ROS signals with their extracellular receptor domain. The intracellular protein kinase 
domain can transfer signals in order to elicit the downstream responses co-ordinating plant 
responses to the ROS signals. Given the huge diversity of the plant RLK family, one objective of 
the project is to determine how single RLKs can discriminate diverse functions and supply 
specificity in stress signaling. 
The group is a member of an international ERA-NET consortium aiming in understanding the 
biochemical and physiological role and function of RLKs in ROS signaling and development. The 
group belongs also to the national Centre of Excellence in Plant Signalling Research and is 
working at the Viikki Biocenter of the University of Helsinki with excellent facilities and access to 
all equipment and infrastructure required in this kind of work. 
 
The post doc is expected to have a strong background in modern laboratory biology. Experience 
in protein work and membrane chemistry is a benefit. A suitable background is Ph.D. in plant 
physiology/molecular biology, genetics and/or biochemistry. While desirable, previous experience 
with plants is not required. 
 
The research group. Our work combines plant physiology with genetics and molecular biology 
and concentrates on finding out how plants sense and transmit stress signals at the cellular level. 
Our main focus is the role of reactive oxygen species and plant hormones during abiotic stress. 
Currently the group consists of eight post docs, four graduate students and three technical staff. 
 
Salary. The salary will be paid according to the University’s new salary system, which is based on 
the qualifications and personal performance of the individual. A post doctoral fellow will most 
likely be at level 5 (highly qualified and long experience at level 6) and depending on the personal 
performance, at level 5 the salary (before taxes) is between 3000 and 3600 € / month. 
 
For further information email Prof Jaakko Kangasjärvi (jaakko.kangasjarvi@helsinki.fi). Send 
applications (CV, list of publications, names and contact information for 2-3 persons for 
reference) before 27th March 2009 by email. Applications are evaluated continuously and the 
position may be filled before the date mentioned. 
 
Some recent publications from the group: 
Wrzaczek M., Brosché M., Kollist H., Kangasjärvi J. 2009. Arabidopsis GRI is involved in the 
regulation of cell death induced by extracellular ROS. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. In Press. 
 
Ahlfors, R., Brosché, M., Kollist, H. & Kangasjärvi, J. 2008. Nitric oxide modulates ozone-induced 
cell death, hormone biosynthesis and gene expression in Arabidopsis thaliana. Plant Journal, In 
Press. 
 
Vahisalu, T., Kollist, H., Wang, Y-F., Nishimura, N., Chan, W.-Y., Valerio, G., Lamminmäki, A., 
Brosché, M., Moldau, H., Desikan, R., Schroeder, J. and Kangasjärvi, J. 2008 SLAC1 is required 
for plant guard cell S-type anion channel function in stomatal signalling. Nature, 452, 487-491.
