A TWO-YEAR POST-DOCTORAL POSITION IN A PROJECT FOCUSING ON PROTEIN PHOSPHATASE 2A IN DESEASE RESISTANCE IN PLANTS


A young and dynamic group working in the National Centre of Excellence in Biocity Turku is searching for a post doc for a project focusing on connections between light acclimation and pathogen resistance in plants. The work is funded by the Academy of Finland and carried out in collaboration with Prof. Eva-Mari Aro at the University of Turku and Prof. Jaakko Kangasjärvi at the University of Helsinki. The initial appointment is for 2 years, with a possibility to extend up to 4 years.

The post doc will focus on structural and functional analysis of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) complexes and their role in the regulation of signaling cascades in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Our previous work has identified the Arabidopsis PP2A as a central component involved in the cross-talk between light acclimation and desease resistance in leaves. Currently, we are working on identification PP2A-dependent signaling interactions by biochemical pull-down assays, FRET analysis, yeast two-hybrid screening, and phenotypic characterization of Arabidopsis mutants.

Applications will be evaluated starting 1st March and taken until a suitable candidate is found. The selected candidate could start ideally at 1st of May, but an earlier or later start date can be agreed.

The candidate should have fluent skills in English and a background in biochemistry, molecular biology and/or plant physiology. Knowledge in expression and purification of proteins is an advantage, while previous experience in plant science is not required. The candidate does not need to have a PhD degree at the time of application, but should have finished studies before the beginning of the appointment.

The work is conducted at the Laboratory of Plant Physiology in the modern BioCity research center at the University of Turku. The salary is paid according to the University's salary system, and will be between 2678-3660 Euros per month depending on the personal performance of the individual.

For further information concerning the project, our collaborators and facilities, please contact Dr. Saijaliisa Kangasjärvi (saisal@utu.fi)
or see http://www.photobiomics.fi

Applications, CV, and names and contact information for at least one person for reference should be sent to
Dr. Saijaliisa Kangasjärvi, Laboratory of Plant Physiology, Biocity, Tykistökatu 6A 6th floor, FI-20520 Turku, Finland. 
