Laboratory Research Assistant, Biology

A laboratory research assistant position is available in the laboratory
of Dr. Nick Kaplinsky in the Department of Biology at Swarthmore
College. The Kaplinsky lab studies the connections between development
and stress responses in plants. For more information see
http://www.swarthmore.edu/NatSci/nkaplin1/.

Responsibilities will include research (plant growth and genetics, DNA,
RNA, and protein isolation, PCR, cloning, and other molecular
techniques, biochemical assays, and microscopy) as well as lab
management (purchasing lab supplies, reagent preparation, and
maintaining lab organization). The candidate will be trained and will
be expected to achieve independence in regular activities. Success will
require strong communication skills, attention to detail, and
willingness to learn. The ideal candidate will think critically and
have the ability to troubleshoot and resolve experimental problems as
they arise.

Requirements:

A BA/BS in Biology or a related discipline with a solid background in
basic molecular genetics and biochemistry through education and hands-on
lab experience is essential. The ideal candidate will also be good at
routine work and be self-motivated. Accuracy, attention to detail, and
the ability to manage multiple projects at a time are imperative.
Enthusiasm for learning new skills and participating in collaborative
projects is required. Ability to collaborate with and manage
undergraduate researchers is expected. Excellent written and oral
communication skills are required.

Please apply through our web site at http://www.swarthmore.edu/hr.xml
using the 'Apply for a job' link. Swarthmore College is a highly
selective liberal arts college located in the suburbs of Philadelphia,
whose mission combines academic rigor with social responsibility.
Swarthmore has a strong institutional commitment to excellence through
diversity in its educational program and employment practices and
actively seeks and welcomes applications from candidates with
exceptional qualifications, particularly those with demonstrable
commitments to a more inclusive society and world. 
