PhD-position Arabidopsis flower development, Wageningen University 
(Netherlands)  Vacancy number PSG-MB-0002   

As part of a VIDI project funded by the Dutch Organisation of 
Scientific Research (NWO), a 4-year PhD student position is available 
to study the molecular basis of floral organ identity specification by 
transcription factors.  

Background 
Flower development is one of the best understood developmental 
processes in plants. Different floral organ identities are specified by 
MADS-domain transcription factors, which assemble into large, floral 
organ-specific protein complexes. Recently, we have identified binding 
sites and direct target genes of two MADS-domain proteins by genome-
wide ChIP-SEQ approaches. However, how different MADS protein complexes 
reveal their regulatory specificity remains to be investigated.  

The Project  
The PhD student will study the combinatorial control of gene expression 
by MADS domain transcription factor complexes during floral organ 
development using genomics and proteomics-based techniques. A variety 
of techniques has been established in the lab and can be applied in 
this project, including chromatin immunopecipitation (ChIP) and its 
genome-wide application ChIP-SEQ, protein complex isolation, in vitro 
DNA-protein and protein-protein interaction assays and fluorescent 
protein imaging-based techniques.  The successful candidate will have 
access to an attractive curriculum of courses, workshops and symposia 
offered by the Wageningen University and within the graduate school 
Experimental Plant Sciences (EPS).  

We ask for an enthusiastic, result-driven scientist with: 
- a university degree at MSc or equivalent level in biochemistry or 
molecular biology 
- a strong interest in learning and applying biochemical techniques - 
an interest in regulation of plant development and in multidisciplinary 
approaches 
- basic experience in protein biochemistry advantageous - proficiency 
in English 
- team player with excellent communication skills  

What do we offer? 
We offer the PhD position that starts the second half of 2011. 
Estimated maximum gross salary per month: Û 2042 in the first year 
rising to Û 2612 in the fourth year.  Duration of the contract: for a 
period of 18 months and extension for an additional 30 months pending a 
positive performance evaluation.  

Additional information about this position can be obtained from: Dr 
Kerstin Kaufmann, telephone: + 317-480502; E-mail address: 
kerstin.kaufmann@wur.nl  You can apply for this position before the 
31th of May  2011 by uploading your application letter and C.V. at the 
website http://www.werkenbij.wur.nl/UK  Please use the website to 
apply. When applying for this job always mention the vacancy number 
(PSG-MB-0002). 

