PhD-position Arabidopsis flower development

 As part of the EU-Marie Curie Research training network SYSFLO (Systems biology of Flowering)

Wageningen (The Netherlands), 38 hours per week
Plant Sciences Group – Wageningen University and Research Centre

Organization
Wageningen University and Research Centre (Wageningen UR) is an international renowned knowledge institute in the fields of life sciences and sustainability. 

SYSFLO
One of the major current challenges in biology is to understand the networks of gene expression that orchestrate development and cell differentiation. To achieve this goal, it is necessary to identify key regulatory genes and their target genes, how regulatory sequences within target genes integrate inputs from multiple regulatory proteins, and how chromatin changes may restrict the access of regulatory proteins to parts of the genome in different cells and developmental stages. These tasks require a combination of sophisticated molecular and bioinformatics approaches: genome-wide analysis of gene expression and protein-DNA interactions, recognition of patterns within large datasets of regulatory sequences and in silico simulations to model and predict the behaviour of the regulatory network. The EU-training network SYSFLO offers young European researchers training in a combination of skills required for the type of challenge outlined above.  Besides the training offered by the SYSFLO consortium, the PhD student will have access to courses and training opportunities offered by the Wageningen University.
 Each of the 9 participating labs will focus on different aspects of the same biological system: plant reproductive development. 

The project: 
The fellow that will be appointed by the Angenent laboratory will study the temporal regulation of target genes of several Arabidopsis MADS domain transcription factor complexes during floral organ development.  Subsequently, the biological role of some selected target genes in establishing the flower will be studied using genetic and molecular approaches. Techniques that will be used are: Chromatin Immunoprecipitation (ChIP), expression studies using micro arrays, in vitro DNA-protein interaction studies, Fluorescence protein imaging using microscopy and mutant analyses. 

Requirements
We are looking for and enthusiastic result-driven European scientist with
* a university degree at MSc or equivalent level in (plant) molecular biology
* Non-Dutch nationality and no longer than 1 year residence in The Netherlands
* an interest in regulation of plant development and in multidisciplinary approaches
* preferred experience with Arabidopsis
* proficiency in English
* willing to visit and perform experiments in labs of the other SYSFLO partners
* team player with excellent communication skills

Conditions of employment 
Start: second half  2009
Estimated maximum gross salary per month: € 2042 in the first year rising to € 2612 in the fourth year. 
Duration of the contract: for a period of 18 months and extension for an additional 30 months pending a positive performance evaluation.

Additional Information 
Additional information about this position and SYSFLO can be obtained from:
Prof Dr Gerco Angenent, telephone: + 317-480953; E-mail address: gerco.angenent@wur.nl 

Application 
You can apply for this position by sending your application, including two references to:
Wageningen UR, Plant Sciences Group, Mrs A.M.D. Bikker, P.O. Box 16, 6700 AA Wageningen,
The Netherlands,  e-mail address: vacaturemeldingen.psg@wur.nl
When applying for this job always mention the vacancy number 09.Biosc.09
Review of applications will start immediately, and will continue until the position has been filled.



2

