PhD position in Arabidopsis flower development at Wageningen University, Netherlands 

A 4-year PhD student position is available to study the molecular basis of floral organ identity 
specification by transcription factors as part of an NWO-funded VIDI project.

Flower development is one of the best understood developmental processes in plants. Different floral 
organ identities are specified by MADS-domain transcription factors, which assemble into large, 
floral organ-specific protein complexes. Recently, we have identified binding sites and direct target 
genes of two MADS-domain proteins by genome-wide ChIP-SEQ approaches. However, how different MADS 
protein complexes achieve their regulatory specificity remains to be investigated.

The PhD student will study the combinatorial control of gene expression by MADS-domain transcription 
factor complexes during floral organ development using genomics- and proteomics-based techniques.

The successful candidate will have access to an attractive curriculum of courses, workshops and 
symposia offered by Wageningen University and the graduate school Experimental Plant Sciences (EPS).

We are looking for an enthusiastic, result-driven scientist with a university degree at MSc or 
equivalent level in biochemistry or molecular biology. A strong interest in learning and applying 
biochemical techniques as well as in the regulation of plant development is desirable. Proficiency 
in English and good communication skills are essential.

For a more detailed description of the position, please follow this link 
http://www.wur.nl/UK/work/Vacancies+New/

Additional information about this position can be obtained from:
Dr Kerstin Kaufmann, kerstin.kaufmann@wur.nl

You can apply for this position before January 2, 2011 by uploading your application letter and C.V. 
at the website http://www.werkenbij.wur.nl/UK Don't email directly to Dr Kaufmann but use the website 
to apply. When applying for this job always mention the vacancy number PSG-MB-0001.

