Post-doctoral Research Position at UNC Chapel Hill 



A post-doctoral position in two-component signaling in rice is available in the 
Department of Biology at UNC Chapel Hill, starting on 1/1/2013 or upon agreement. 



The NSF-sponsored project focuses on the characterization of two-component signaling 
in rice. Previous studies from our lab and others have linked two-component elements 
to cytokinin signaling, meristem function, circadian rhythms, pathogen responses and 
other process in Arabidopsis. Various lines of evidence suggest overlapping as well 
as unique functions for these elements in monocots. We seek to explore the function 
of two-component elements in rice. The successful post-doc applicant will use 
genetic, molecular and genomic approaches to query the role of these elements in 
rice growth and development. These studies will provide novel insights into the role 
of two-component elements in a monocot and how alteration of the function of these 
elements affects yield. 

The candidate should be familiar with standard molecular techniques and have an 
interest in signaling pathways regulating plant growth. Previous experience with 
rice and hormone responses would be ideal. This project will be performed at the 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill under the supervision of Dr. Joseph Kieber. 
The Biology Department at UNC provides an outstanding environment for fundamental 
studies in biology. Chapel Hill is a pleasant college town located near Research 
Triangle Park, home to many biotechnology companies, including multiple companies 
focusing on research in plant biotechnology, and to Duke and NC State Universities. 

Applications should be submitted in electronic form, and should include a CV, a short 
description of previous research and current research interests, and three letters of 
reference. The candidate should have obtained his or her PhD within the last 3 years. 
A strong record of publication will be an important criterion for screening applications. 
Inquiries and applications should include the subject line "Postdoctoral Position" and 
should be sent to: 

Joe Kieber 

jkieber@unc.edu<mailto:jkieber@unc.edu> 
919-962-4455 
http://labs.bio.unc.edu/Kieber/ 