RESEARCH ASSOCIATE - BIOSTATISTICS/BIOINFORMATICS 
Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge, UK 

Salary: £27,319-£35,646 pa 
Limit of Tenure applies* 

Genome-wide mapping and biostatistical analysis of meiotic recombination 

Meiotic recombination generates novel combinations of genetic variation via 
reciprocal exchange between homologous chromosomes. To better understand 
this process we are generating genome-wide recombination frequency maps in 
the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. This research has important 
implications for population genetics and food security. 

The Research Associate will analyse high-throughput sequencing genotype data 
(Illumina) to generate recombination frequency maps. They will then model 
recombination frequency in terms of genomic (transcription, natural 
variation, small RNAs) and epigenomic (cytosine methylation, histone 
methylation, histone variants) features using publicly available whole 
genome datasets. 

The Research Associate will work jointly within Dr Ian Henderson's 
experimental research group and the Departmental Bioinformatics Group led by 
Dr Krys Kelly. The bioinformatics group currently consists of 6 people 
developing statistical methodology and analysing genome-wide patterns of 
small RNAs and epigenetic information in association with Prof Sir David 
Baulcombe. 

Applicants should have a Ph.D and substantial experience of a statistical 
language (e.g. R, Matlab). Experience in statistics, statistical genetics, 
quantitative genetics or genomics would also be beneficial. 

For further particulars please visit the Department website at 
http://www.plantsci.cam.ac.uk/jobs/index.html or contact Dr Ian Henderson 
(email: irh25@cam.ac.uk) 

To apply, please send a covering letter, CV, a Chris/6 cover sheet (parts I 
and III only) - http://www.admin.cam.ac.uk/offices/hr/forms/chris6/ - and 
the names and contact details (including email addresses) of 3 referees to 
Ombretta Orsini, Head of Department's Secretary, Department of Plant 
Sciences, Downing Street, Cambridge, CB2 3EA or email: oo203@cam.ac.uk 

* Limit of tenure: The post is available for 2 years, in the first instance. 

  

Quote Reference: PD07707,Closing Date: 23 February 2011 
