Bioinformatics Postdoc in High Throughput Sequencing 
 http://waksman.rutgers.edu/postdoc.php 
 
The Waksman Institute of Microbiology located on the New Brunswick campus of  Rutgers 
University is seeking applicants for a bioinformatics postdoc appointment to  develop 
bioinformatic tools and analyze genome, transcriptome and epigenome data  generated on the 
454, Illumina and SOLiD high-throughput sequencing platforms. The  qualified candidate will 
develop methods to extract biological meaning from DNA  sequence information and should have 
a strong background in biology, bioinformatics  and scripting languages with experience building 
and maintaining biological databases.  The qualified candidate should be able to process 
information from sequencing  machines and solve long term genomics questions that high-
throughput sequencing can  address. It is expected that research will lead to publication in top tier 
journals and  presentation at National and International conferences. 
 
Requirements: 
       * Ph.D. in molecular biology, genetics, bioinformatics, systems biology or other  related fields; 
candidates with a Ph.D. in physics, mathematics or computer science that have some practical 
biology knowledge and experience are also encouraged to apply. 
       * Strong publication record and demonstrated scientific track record. 
       * Strong computational and statistical skills. 
       * Programming and database experience; Perl, python or Ruby expertise required. 
       * Experience with next generation sequencing, microarrays or other high-throughput biology 
is desirable. 
       * Willingness to supervise graduate students and undergraduates is desirable. 
How to apply: 
>Send a cover letter stating why you are interested in this position and how your skill set 
>        complements this position, curriculum vitae, and the names of three references that we 
>        will contact if you are chosen for an interview to: hr@waksman.rutgers.edu with 
>        “Genomics and Bioinformatics Postdoctoral Fellow” in the subject line. Rutgers is an equal 
opportunity employer. 
For more information about this position please contact: 
>>              Dr. Joachim Messing (messing@waksman.rutgers.edu) 
>or visit the website - http://waksman.rutgers.edu/postdoc.php
