Food Security Position

Photosynthesis research.  Postdoctoral scientist position available immediately to 
develop a novel automated high-throughput chlorophyll fluorescence screening system to 
indentify plant with altered photosynthetic efficiencies or other productivity related traits. 
The ideal candidate will have experience in plant physiology and genetics and in data 
base construction and image analysis.  Applicants should send a cv and the names of 
three references to Dr. Helmut Kirchhoff, Institute of Biological Chemistry, Washington 
State University, Pullman, WA 99164-6340 (kirchhh@wsu.edu).   
 
Position: Grant supported Research Associate to be employed by the Institute of 
Biological Chemistry in Pullman, WA. This is a full-time position carrying out scientific 
research and developing methods for automated analysis of plant phenotypes.  Initial 
work will investigate photosynthetic phenotypes of Arabidopsis mutants but a major 
responsibility of the position will ultimately be to develop procedures for screening a 
diverse set of food and fiber crop plants.   
 
Responsibilities include:  
To set up and carry out research with Arabidopsis thaliana and other plants using digital 
photographic and spectroscopic techniques to characterize mutants with alterations in 
photosynthetic properties and productivity.  This will require setting up plants and 
developing screening protocols for measuring plant properties using automated camera 
and image analysis, extract meaningful data from primary screening parameters, 
confirming phenotypes using these tools and spectrophotometric methods.  A primary 
expectation will be to publish the results of this research.   
The results and methods developed in this study will then be extended to other projects 
with model and agriculturally important crop plants.  One goal of this effort is to improve 
automated phenotypic characterization in order to improve the speed and accuracy of 
plant breeding. Some supervision of time-slip employees will be expected. 
 
General requirements: 
Bachelor's Degree in an appropriate field of technology or science and two years 
experience as a Research Technologist, or equivalent; OR an advanced Degree in an 
appropriate scientific field; OR equivalent education/experience.  
The ideal candidate will have experience in spectroscopy, plant physiology and genetics 
and in data base construction and image analysis. 
 
Position Appointment Status 
Temporary-- current available funding for two years 
Full-time, 12-month 
Salary will be commensurate with candidate's academic and professional qualifications 
and experience. 
Benefits-- Standard WSU Health and Retirement benefits available 
 
Please indicate the name of the supervisor this position reports to 
Michael L. Kahn 
 
Contact person for more information: 
Dr. Helmut Kirchhoff, Institute of Biological Chemistry, Washington State University, 
Pullman, WA 99164-6340 (kirchhh@wsu.edu) 
 
Applicants should electronically submit a single PDF file to Dr. Helmut Kirchhoff, 
Institute of Biological Chemistry, Washington State University, Pullman, WA 99164- 
6340. The file should contain a description your relevant background and qualifications 
for the position, a cv and the names of three references who we can contact if we are 
interested in pursuing the application. 
 
 
WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY/ 
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION EDUCATOR AND EMPLOYER. Members of ethnic 
minorities, women, special disabled veterans, veterans of the Vietnam-era, recently 
separated veterans, and other protected veterans, persons of disability and/or persons age 
40 and over are encouraged to apply. WSU employs only US citizens and lawfully 
authorized non-US citizens.  All new employees must show employment eligibility 
verification as required by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. 
 
WSU Agricultural Research Center employment is available to all without 
discrimination. Evidence of non-compliance may be reported to the WSU Center for 
Human Rights. 
 
Washington State University is committed to providing access and reasonable 
accommodation in its services, programs, activities, education and employment for 
individuals with disabilities. To request disability accommodation in the application 
process, contact Human Resource Services: 509-335-4521(v), Washington State TDD 
Relay Service: Voice Callers: 1-800-833-6384; TDD Callers: 1-800-833-6388, 509.-335- 
1259(f), or hrs@wsu.edu. 
 
