Postdoctoral Position in Quantitative Genomics
Available: October 2008 till…
Location: Plant Sciences: University of California, Davis
We seek two postdoctoral researchers to work on a project investigating the role of 
network biology and epistasis in controlling quantitative phenotypes within plants. 
Our laboratory has recently identified an epistatic gene network that controls overlapping 
networks of primary metabolism within Arabidopsis thaliana (for a list of publications go 
to the Web site). We will clone the genes controlling this quantitative epistatic network 
and test their function in both Arabidopsis and Rice. Further, we will be conducting 
further metabolomics quantitative trait locus analysis on additional populations. Our goal 
is to quantify the frequency of epistasis within plants and identify underlying molecular 
mechanisms that can lead to quantitative epistasis. Components of this project include the 
cloning of QTLs within Arabidopsis, characterization of genetic and biochemical 
interactions within an epistatic network, quantitative genomics of metabolism in multiple 
plant species, bioinformatics analysis integrating unknown metabolites into metabolic 
networks. 
Applicants with a Ph.D. in plant quantitative or computational genetics will be given high 
priority. Knowledge of modern molecular biological techniques (e.g. PCR, Sequence 
analysis, in vitro protein expression etc.) and laboratory-based research is required. Top 
applicants will have experience in plant genetics, biochemistry and computational 
analysis. Experience with cereals is a plus. The position is available immediately but the 
start date is flexible. Salary will be commensurate with experience; the position also 
includes health insurance and other benefits. 
The laboratory is an interactive group at the forefront of applying genomics techniques to 
understanding the molecular basis of quantitative phenotypes in both an ecological and 
applied context. We have numerous international collaborations and opportunities with 
an excellent track record of placing individuals in advanced positions.
To apply, please e-mail a cover letter, curriculum vitae, and the names of three references 
to Daniel Kliebenstein. Applications will be reviewed until the positions are filled. For 
more information contact Dr. Kliebenstein via phone at (530) 754-7775 or via e-mail.
