The Biology Department at Bowdoin College invites applications for a tenure-
track position in genetics at the Assistant Professor level beginning Fall 2008.  
We are seeking candidates with experience in bioinformatics working at the 
molecular, organismal,  or population level. Postdoctoral experience preferred.  
Typical teaching responsibilities each year are 3 courses including contribution 
to the non-majors or introductory  curriculum,  and  laboratories (with a lab 
instructor). The successful candidate is expected to pursue an active research 
program that involves undergraduates.

Review of applications will begin October 15 and will continue until the 
position is filled.  Please send a curriculum vitae and a description of your 
research interests and teaching philosophy, and arrange to have three letters of 
reference sent to:
Genetics Search Committee, Biology Department, 6500 College Station, Bowdoin 
College, Brunswick, ME 04011-8465

Bowdoin is a highly selective liberal arts college on the Maine coast with a 
diverse student body made up of 25% students of color, 4% International students 
and approximately 15% first generation college students.  Bowdoin College is 
committed to equality and diversity and is an equal opportunity employer.  We 
encourage inquiries from candidates who will enrich and contribute to the 
cultural, socio-economic, and ethnic diversity of our college. Bowdoin College 
does not discriminate on the basis of age, race, creed, color, religion, marital 
status, gender, sexual orientation, veteran status, national origin, or 
disability status in employment, or in our education programs.  
Bowdoin College offers strong support for faculty research and teaching.  We 
recognize that recruiting and retaining faculty may involve considerations of 
spouses and domestic partners.  To that end, where possible, the College will 
attempt to accommodate and respond creatively to the needs of spouses and 
partners of members of the faculty. For further information about the college 
and the department, see our website at http://academic.bowdoin.edu/biology/

