PhD Studentship: 

Development of Computational Tools for 
Evolutionary Functional Genomics


A PhD studentship (salary based on TV-L West) is available for the development of 
computational tools for comparative genomics in a joint project between Dr. Ute 
Krämer (Evolutionary Functional Genomics) in the BioQuant Center of the University 
of Heidelberg and Dr. Benedikt Brors/Prof. Dr. Roland Eils (Bioinformatics/Statistics) 
at the German Cancer Research Center. 

We are looking for a biologist with a strong background in statistics and an interest in 
computational data analysis and computer programming, or a bioinformaticist/ 
biostatistician with a strong interest in genomics, experimental genomics tools and 
methods, genome and trait evolution in plants. Experience with the R and bioconductor 
software, MatLab, and/or Perl programming will be useful. Candidates should have a 
MSc, Diplom or equivalent degree in Biology, Bioinformatics, Biotechnology or a 
related subject.

Cross-species comparisons of genome-wide genomic or transcriptomic datasets from 
Arabidopsis thaliana and two closely related plant species will be used to investigate 
evolutionary genome dynamics and changes in transcriptional regulation underlying 
adaptive traits, in particular naturally selected metal hyperaccumulation and associated 
hypertolerance. Microarray-based comparative genome hybridizations and transcript 
profiles will be analyzed initially. The developed novel tools and platforms will be used, 
for example, to address the role of gene copy number expansions and gene deletions in 
trait evolution at the whole-genome scale. The model trait we are studying is an extreme 
trait found in Arabidopsis halleri: naturally selected metal hyperaccumulation and 
associated metal hypertolerance. Experimental work can be included in the project. 
Tools are applicable in a wider range of plant species of the Brassicaceae family, as well 
as in other sets of related, phenotypically diversified organisms. 

The studentship is funded within the FRONTIER initiative of the University of 
Heidelberg. Further information is available from 
Dr. Ute Krämer (ute.kraemer@bioquant.uni-heidelberg.de; http://ephedra.hip.uni-
heidelberg.de/?u=ukraemer&l=e). 

Applications will be accepted until 30 June 2008, or until the position is filled (posted 
13 May 2008). 


