Postdoctoral position 


available in the laboratory of Dr. Ute Krämer, University of Heidelberg, Germany, on 



Comparative genomics in Arabidopsis-related Brassicaceae species


The aim of the project is the development of genome-wide phylogenetic footprinting approaches 
for the identification of novel cis-regulatory elements. Applicants should have a strong interest 
in evolutionary questions and/or the regulation of gene expression, as well as in computational 
microarray data and sequence analysis.

Past and ongoing microarray-based cross-species comparative genome hybridization and 
transcript profiling approaches (Becher et al., 2004; Talke et al., 2006; unpublished) will be 
expanded using a selected set of stimuli. The microarray data will then be used for phylogenetic 
footprinting, together with emerging genome sequence data and complementary experimental 
approaches. The results will be combined with results from conventional in silico and 
experimental approaches for cis-regulatory element identification and validation. The project 
will also address molecular mechanisms of naturally selected metal hyperaccumulation and 
associated hypertolerance in Arabidopsis halleri (Hanikenne et al., 2008, Nature doi: 
10.1038/nature06877). 

Applicants should have very good English language skills (German not essential), a PhD in 
plant molecular biology or a related subject and practical experience in several of the following 
fields: plant molecular biology, microarray-based transcriptomics or comparative genome 
hybridization, growth of Arabidopsis relatives in hydroponic culture, microarray data analysis 
(e.g. using the software Genespring, R and/or BioConductor), in silico and experimental 
promoter analysis, regulation of gene expression, phylogenetic footprinting. 

The position is funded within the GABI-FUTURE initiative of the German Federal Ministry of 
Education and Research for 24 months. Project partners are Dr. Imre Somssich and Dr. Mario 
Roccaro, MPI-Z Cologne (functional screening of libraries of synthetic promoter elements), and 
Dr. Lorenz Bülow, TU Braunschweig (database, bioinformatics and web interface) (www.gabi-
advancis.de). 

Further information is available at http://www.bot.uni-heidelberg.de/?u=ukraemer&l=e. 
Please send applications including a CV, list of publications, a 1/2-page statement of research 
interests and addresses of three referees to: Dr Ute Krämer (University of Heidelberg, 
BIOQUANT BQ 23, Im Neuenheimer Feld 267, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany, 
ute.kraemer“at”bioquant.uni-heidelberg.de). Applications will be accepted until 30 June 2008, 
or until the position is filled. 
