Professor and Chair, Department of Biological Sciences

We invite applications and nominations for a prominent academic scientist
and leader to serve as Professor and Chair of the Department of Biological
Sciences (www.biol.sc.edu <http://www.biol.sc.edu> ).

Applicants should currently hold or be immediately eligible for promotion to
the rank of Professor. They should have a record of sustained academic
excellence and current extramural research funding, an ability to develop
and interact with multidisciplinary programs along with experience in
graduate and undergraduate training.

The successful candidate will have both the vision and leadership skills
necessary to guide the research, teaching and service missions of the
Department and to promote collaborative efforts both within the Department
and other research programs within and outside the University. Ranked among
the top 30 Ph.D. programs in the Biological Sciences in the United States by
the National Research Council, the Department of Biological Sciences is a
multidisciplinary unit of approximately 1,200 Undergraduates, 80 Graduate
Students and 40 Faculty from various areas including Biochemistry,
Bioinformatics, Cancer Biology, Cell and Molecular Biology, Ecology and
Evolution, Genetics, and Plant Sciences.

Review of applications will begin October 15, 2011. To ensure full
consideration, applications must be received by November 15, 2011. The
review process will continue until the position is filled.

Applications should include a curriculum vita and a statement of research,
teaching and leadership goals. The names, mail and e-mail addresses and
phone numbers of at least three references holding the rank of Professor
should also be provided.

Applications should be e-mailed in PDF format or sent to Peggy Breeland,
Administrative Coordinator, Chair Search, Department of Biological Sciences,
University of South Carolina, 715 Sumter Street, Columbia, SC 29208 (
breeland@mailbox.sc.edu
<mailto:breeland@mailbox.sc.**edu<breeland@mailbox.sc.edu>>
 ).

The University of South Carolina is an affirmative action/equal opportunity
employer. Minorities and women are especially encouraged to apply. The
University of South Carolina does not discriminate in educational or
employment opportunities or decisions for qualified persons on the basis of
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, sexual
orientation, or veteran status.

