*Assistant Professor in Gene Expression* 

The Department of Biological Sciences at the University of South Carolina 
at Columbia invites applications for a tenure-track, Assistant Professor 
position in the area of regulation of *Gene Expression*. We seek candidates 
working in signal transduction, chromatin remodeling, cancer biology, or 
RNA biology but outstanding individuals in all areas of gene expression are 
encouraged to apply. Applicants should have a record of research excellence 
and an interest in graduate and undergraduate training. To ensure full 
consideration, applications must be received by November 15th, 
2012.Applications should be e-mailed in PDF format or mailed to Peggy 
Breeland, Administrative Coordinator, Gene Expression Search, Department of 
Biological Sciences, University of South Carolina, 715 Sumter Street, 
Columbia, SC 29208 (breeland@mailbox.sc.edu).**Applications should include 
a vita and a statement of research accomplishments and goals. The names, 
mail and e-mail addresses and phone numbers of three references should also 
be provided. 

** 

*Assistant Professor in Plant Biochemistry* 

The Department of Biological Sciences at the University of South Carolina 
at Columbia invites applications for a tenure-track junior faculty position 
in the area of *Plant Biochemistry*. We seek a candidate to conduct 
research at the intersection of biochemistry, genomics, and human nutrition 
and/or the sustainable production of bioenergy/bioproducts. This position 
will focus on the biochemistry and molecular biology of metabolic pathways 
involved in either: (1) the biosynthesis and modification of nutritionally 
and/or medically important compounds and/or (2) primary metabolic pathways 
important to "green" energy and/or bioproducts. The candidate will provide 
intellectual leadership but also serve as a member of an interdisciplinary 
team of faculty interested in linking basic research to problem solving in 
the areas of human health and sustainable energy and chemical feedstocks 
production. To ensure full consideration, applications must be received by 
November 15, 2012. The review process will continue until the position is 
filled. Applications should be emailed in PDF format or sent to Peggy 
Breeland, Administrative Coordinator, Metabolic Genomics search, Department 
of Biological Sciences, University of South Carolina, 715 Sumter Street, 
Columbia, SC 29208 (breeland@mailbox.sc.edu). Candidates should include 
with their application a vita and statement of research, teaching, and 
leadership goals. The names, mail and email addresses and phone numbers of 
at least three references who can be contacted at the appropriate time 
should also be provided. 

More information on these positions, the Department, the University and the 
city of Columbia, SC, can be found at www.biol.sc.edu < 
http://www.biol.sc.edu>. 

The University of South Carolina is an affirmative action, equal 
opportunity employer. Minorities and women are encouraged to apply. The 
University of South Carolina does not discriminate in educational or 
employment opportunities or decisions for qualified persons on the basis of 
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, sexual 
orientation or veteran status. 
