Applications are invited for a 3 year BBSRC-funded Post-Doctoral Developmental 
Biologist in the Crop Development and Genomics group (King group) at Rothamsted 
Research, Harpenden, UK. The research project will investigate "modulation of seed size 
in oilseed rape (Brassica napus)" using a combination of developmental, genetic and cell-
biological approaches. The project involves collaboration with Professor Rod Scott 
(University of Bath) and with a research technician assigned to the project (based at 
Bath). The project will utilise knowledge of biological processes obtained in Arabidopsis 
to understand mechanisms controlling seed size in the related Brassica crop species. 
 
Research in the above group focuses on molecular genetics and developmental biology of 
rapeseed composition and productivity by utilising comparative genomics and trait 
dissection in model and crop plants. This work is complemented by embryo and 
developmental studies in Arabidopsis and Brassica. 
 
Candidates should have an excellent track record and experience in developmental 
biology (plant or animal) or genetics, and standard molecular techniques. Experience in 
embryology, cell biology, microscopy or micro-dissection would be advantageous. 
 
We are searching for an experienced post-doctoral researcher who can work 
independently. Candidates should be highly motivated, creative and capable of 
contributing productively as part of a team. Proven ability to write scientific papers is 
desirable. Rothamsted Research has excellent laboratory and glasshouse facilities, along 
with first-class support in bio-informatics, statistics and bio-imaging 
(http://www.rothamsted.ac.uk/). 
 
 The post is funded for 36 months at Band 6-PD. The appointment is full time with a 
starting salary normally in the region of £24,200 to £27,200 per annum (pay award 
pending). For informal discussion, please contact Dr. Smita Kurup 
(smita.kurup@bbsrc.ac.uk). 
 
Apply by application form only, available with further particulars from our website 
www.rothamsted.bbsrc.ac.uk or from the HR Group, Rothamsted Research, Harpenden, 
Herts, AL5 2JQ. 
 
Please quote reference 1020. 
 
Closing date: 8 January 2008 
 
An Equal Opportunities Employer
