Postdoctoral Positions for the Study of Plant Adaptation 
Michigan State University, Colorado State University, University of Colorado, Uppsala University 

Five postdoctoral positions are available to conduct collaborative research on the ecological, 
physiological and genetic mechanisms of adaptation in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. These 
positions are associated with a five-year multi-investigator project funded by NSF and the Swedish 
Research Council to identify the traits, genes, and causal networks involved in adaptation to natural 
environments. Team members include Doug Schemske (Michigan State University; evolutionary ecology, 
adaptation), Mike Thomashow (Michigan State University; gene regulatory networks, molecular genetic 
analysis of cold acclimation, freezing tolerance), John McKay (Colorado State University; adaptation, 
drought tolerance, population genetics), Barbara Demmig-Adams and William Adams (University of 
Colorado; ecophysiology of photosynthesis and photoprotection; leaf anatomy/ultrastructure) and Jon 
Agren (Uppsala University; adaptation, plant evolutionary ecology). Our research addresses the 
following questions: How do Arabidopsis thaliana from contrasting natural environments differ 
functionally and structurally? What are the Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) and genes underlying key 
traits involved in adaptation? How does the substitution of adaptive QTL influence the phenotype, 
gene expression/regulation and plant fitness? Are there adaptive tradeoffs between traits and/or 
pleiotropy between adaptive QTL? 

Preference will be given to candidates with a strong background in evolution and/or physiology, and 
training in one or more of the following areas: molecular biology, molecular genetics, genomics, 
evolutionary ecology, and ecophysiology. Activities of the different labs will include studies of 
functional and structural aspects of plant growth and photosynthesis under different environmental 
conditions, freezing and drought tolerance, QTL mapping, gene expression studies, construction of 
Near Isogenic Lines, gene discovery, functional genetic screens, and fieldwork at our European 
experimental gardens. In addition, each position requires data analysis, the preparation of 
manuscripts for publication and participation in workshops on career development. The details of each 
position vary depending on the lab and there will be considerable opportunity for individuals to 
develop new research directions. 

Applicants should send a Curriculum Vitae, a letter stating specific research interests, a summary of 
research accomplishments and future research objectives, and the names and contact information for 
three professional references as a single pdf file to John McKay (jkmckay@colostate.edu). Include in 
the email subject line "plant adaptation postdoc". Candidates who wish to be considered for the 
position with Jon Agren at Uppsala University should also send these materials to jon.agren@ebc.uu.se

The applications will be reviewed by the research team. A Ph.D. is required. Review of applications 
will begin January 10 and continue until suitable candidates are identified. The start date is 
negotiable. The participating universities are Affirmative Action / Equal Opportunity Employers. 
