A POSTDOCTORAL POSITION is available at the Biotech Center, Rutgers University, in the 
laboratory of Prof. Eric Lam (http://aesop.rutgers.edu/~lamlab) for a highly motivated scientist 
interested in studying chromatin organization and stress responses in higher plants.  We have 
established a set of 277 mapped lines of novel transposants in Arabidopsis with single Ds 
insertions that allows functional and structural characterization of global epigenetic control in 
living plants.  Together with the recently established SOLiD NextGen sequencing capability in 
Rutgers for multiplexed ChIP-seq and small RNA analyses, our unique resource promise to 
reveal interesting new insights to the complex network of the epigenome and stress responses 
using Arabidopsis and grasses as paradigms.  The successful applicant will apply these new 
tools to examine global epigenetic control as a function of development and in response to 
stresses. 
The ideal applicant should have prior experience with molecular (ChIP assay, PCR, cloning, 
Northern blotting, etc.) and biochemical (Western blotting, enzyme assay, etc) techniques, 
advanced microscopy, and/or chemical biology approaches. Knowledge of epigenetic 
mechanisms and some bioformatics skills are desirable but not required.  If you are interested in 
this position, please email a cover-letter stating your research interests, a curriculum vitae, and 
contact information for three references to: Prof. Eric Lam, ericL89@hotmail.com 
   The Biotech Center at Rutgers University is located in New Brunswick, New Jersey, and enjoys 
a convenient location close to the famous Jersey Shore and Pocono Mountains while also easily 
accessible (within 1 hour by car or train) to metropolitan areas such as New York City and 
Philadelphia.  The Biotech Center at the School of Environmental and Biological Sciences in the 
Cook Campus is well-equipped with advanced instrumentations for molecular biology, 
biochemistry and microscopy.  Rutgers University is an equal opportunity employer that strongly 
encourages underrepresented groups to apply for open positions. 
 
Related Publications: 
 
"Defining the functional network of epigenetic regulators in Arabidopsis thaliana" 
Molecular Plant, EPub online: Apr. 2009; DOI: 10.1093/mp/ssp017 
 
"Genome-wide transposon tagging reveals location-dependent effects on transcription and 
chromatin organization in Arabidopsis" 
Plant J.,  Published Online: Apr 12 2008; DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-313X.2008.03517.x 
 
"Bax Inhibitor-1 modulates endoplasmic reticulum stress-mediated programmed cell death in 
Arabidopsis" 
J. Biol. Chem., 2008; 283: 3200-3210. 
 
“DNA hypomethylation reduces homologous pairing of inserted tandem repeat arrays in somatic 
nuclei of Arabidopsis thaliana” 
Plant J., 2005 Nov;44(4): 531-40. 
 
"Visualizing chromosome structure/organization" 
Annual Rev. of Plant Biology, 2004; 55: 537-554. 
 
 
Prof. Eric Lam 
 
Director, Biotechnology Center for Agriculture 
     and the Environment 
Professor of Plant Biology and Pathology 
 
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, U.S.A. 
 
 
 
Email: ericL89@hotmail.com; Lam@aesop.rutgers.edu 

