A POSTDOCTORAL POSITION is available at the Biotech Center, Rutgers University, 
in the laboratory of Prof. Eric Lam (http://aesop.rutgers.edu/~lamlab) for a highly 
motivated scientist interested in studying chromatin organization and global regulation of 
genes via epigenetic control.  Recently, we have established a set of about 300 mapped 
lines of novel transposants in Arabidopsis with single Ds insertions that allows functional 
and structural characterization of global epigenetic control in living plants.  This unique 
resource promises to reveal interesting new insights to the complex network of the 
epigenome using Arabidopsis as a paradigm.  The successful applicant will apply this 
collection of lines to examine global epigenetic control as a function of development and 
in response to stresses.  In addition, these lines will also be used to screen for novel 
chemicals that can regulate epigenetic pathways using chemical biology approach. 
   The ideal applicant should have prior experience with molecular (ChIP assay, PCR, 
cloning, northern/Southern blotting, etc.) and biochemical (western blotting, enzyme 
assay, etc) techniques, advanced microscopy, and/or chemical biology approaches. 
Knowledge of epigenetic mechanisms is desirable but not required. If you are interested 
in this position, please email a cover-letter stating your research interests, a curriculum 
vitae, and contact information for three references to: Prof. Eric Lam, 
ericL89@hotmail.com 
   The Biotech Center at Rutgers University is located in New Brunswick, New Jersey, 
and enjoys a convenient location close to the famous Jersey Shore and Pocono Mountains 
while also easily accessible (within 1 hour by car or train) to metropolitan areas such as 
New York City and Philadelphia.  The Biotech Center at the School of Environmental 
and Biological Sciences in the Cook Campus is well-equipped with advanced 
instrumentations for molecular biology, biochemistry and microscopy.  Rutgers 
University is an equal opportunity employer that strongly encourages underrepresented 
groups to apply for open positions. 
 
Related Publications: 
"Genome-wide transposon tagging reveals location-dependent effects on transcription 
and chromatin organization in Arabidopsis"  Plant J.  Published Online: Apr 12 2008; 
DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-313X.2008.03517.x 
 
“DNA hypomethylation reduces homologous pairing of inserted tandem repeat arrays in 
somatic nuclei of Arabidopsis thaliana”  Plant J. 2005 Nov;44(4):531-40. 
 
"Visualizing chromosome structure/organization"  Annual Rev. of Plant Biology, 2004; 
55: 537-554. 
 
"Chromatin of endoreduplicated pavement cells has greater range of movement than that 
of diploid guard cells in Arabidopsis thaliana"  J. of Cell Science, 2003; 116: 2195-2201. 
 
"Detection of green fluorescence protein tagged chromosomes in live Arabidopsis 
thaliana"  Genome Biology, 2001; 2: 0045.1-0045.10. 
 
 
Prof. Eric Lam 
 
Biotechnology Center for Agriculture and the Environment 
Professor of Plant Science, 
 
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, U.S.A.
