A POSTDOCTORAL POSITION for BIOFUEL RESEARCH is available immediately 
at the Biotech Center, Rutgers University, in the laboratory of Prof. Eric Lam 
(http://aesop.rutgers.edu/~lamlab) for a highly motivated scientist.  Plants have the 
unique ability of harvesting the sun's energy while fixing atmospheric carbon dioxide, a 
greenhouse gas that has been linked to global warming and severe climate changes. 
 Although the use of sugarcane for bioethanol production in Brazil has demonstrated the 
economic and technical feasibility of providing renewable "green" fuel in a large 
economy, much research and development will be necessary to successfully expand the 
productivity of energy crops and efficiency of their conversion into fuels.  Using a 
combination of biochemical, molecular and genetic approaches, this position funded by 
the Biotechnology Center at Rutgers University will focus on developing methods to 
engineer plants for facilitating the downstream fermentation process.  As such, our 
objective is to make significant contributions to the worldwide quest for renewable and 
environmentally sustainable energy source that can replace fossil fuels. 
   The ideal applicant should have prior experience with molecular and biochemical 
techniques. Knowledge of plant biology and microscopy will be desirable as well. If you 
are interested in this position, please email a cover-letter stating your research interests, a 
curriculum vitae, and contact information for three references to: Prof. Eric Lam, 
ericL89@hotmail.com 
   The Biotech Center at Rutgers University is located in New Brunswick, New Jersey, 
and enjoys a convenient location close to the famous Jersey Shore and Pocono Mountains 
while also easily accessible (within 1 hour by car or train) to metropolitan areas such as 
New York City and Philadelphia.  The Biotech Center at the School of Environmental 
and Biological Sciences in the Cook Campus is well equipped with advanced 
instrumentations for molecular biology, biochemistry and microscopy.  Rutgers 
University is an equal opportunity employer that strongly encourages underrepresented 
groups to apply for open positions. 
 
Prof. Eric Lam 
 
Director, Biotechnology Center for Agriculture 
     and the Environment 
Professor of Plant Biology and Pathology 
 
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, U.S.A. 
 
 
 
Email: ericL89@hotmail.com; Lam@aesop.rutgers.edu
