[Arabidopsis] Faculty Positions in Proteomics and Quantitative Biology


As part of an initiative in Systems Biology, the Department of Plant Biology
at Michigan State University seeks to fill two faculty positions in
Proteomics and in Computational or Theoretical Biology. We are seeking
individuals who will address fundamental biological questions in plants
and/or in related model systems. Applications from individuals who develop
methods to generate and integrate complex or heterogeneous data from
metabolomic, proteomic, and genomic studies or build models of metabolic or
regulatory networks are especially encouraged. The successful candidates
will be expected to develop vigorous independent research programs that are
supported by extramural funding. We are particularly interested in
recruiting colleagues who will participate in collaborative
interdisciplinary research. Each successful candidate may have a joint
appointment with another suitable department and will contribute to
undergraduate and graduate teaching in their areas of expertise. 

 

These faculty positions are tenure track, academic year appointments at the
Assistant Professor level. An appointment at the Associate Professor level
will be considered for exceptional candidates. Applicants must have a PhD
and postdoctoral research experience is highly desirable. Applications
should include a curriculum vita, a summary of research accomplishments and
future research objectives, a brief description of teaching philosophy/goals
and three letters of reference. Application materials should be sent
electronically to PLBSYS@msu.edu. Information about the Department of Plant
Biology can be found at http://www.plantbiology.msu.edu
<http://www.plantbiology.msu.edu/> . The review of applications will begin
October 1, 2006 and will continue until suitable candidates are identified.
Questions regarding these positions may be sent to Robert Last
(lastr@msu.edu). 

 

Michigan State University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action
Employer. Women and minorities are strongly encouraged to apply. Persons
with disabilities have the right to request and receive reasonable
accommodation.

 

