We are looking for a highly motivated student (Ph.D and or master or combined course) 
who has experience in plant molecular biology/physiology(Gene cloning, qRT-PCR, in 
planta transformation and functional characterization) at Chonnam National University, 
Korea. 
The Ph.D student can participate in one of projects below. First, elucidating 
the basic roles of plant phospholipase A family in molecular biology, genetic, and 
biochemisry level (Lee et al., 2010. 22:1812-1825 Plant Cell). Understanding the role 
of plant phospholipase and plant development based on auxin hormone will be the main 
focus. Second, functional characterization of ginseng saponin (triterpene) biosynthesis-
related genes such as HMGR,Dammarenediol synthase, Squalene synthase, Squalene expoxidase, 
UGT, P450 genes. Promoter analysis of the genes by ChIP or yeast one/two-hybrid analysis, 
and finding their main regulator will be the focus. Ultimately selective ginseng saponin 
production in bacteria or in planta system is also our interest. Any experience in confocal 
microscopy can be a merit. Salary is commensurate with experience and qualifications. 

Interested candidate should apply by email to Prof. Ok Ran Lee (mpizlee@hotmail.com). 
The email should include the following: (1) cover letter explaining the research interests, 
(2) CV, (3) publications or in press articles, and (4) contact information including phone 
numbers for at least 3 references. CNU has continued its glorious traditions as a leading 
star of the Honam region toward a broader world and brighter future. CNU has grown important 
and professional human resources of the country as a major national university. And 
it has also earned a top 10-level research competence in the nation as a 
research-focused university. Moreover, its unstinted support for education 
gives the highest satisfaction to students. Based on the secred entials, 
Chonnam National University is growing into a world-class university.
 
Ok Ran Lee Ph.D.
Asistant ProfessorApplied Plant Science 
College of Agriculture and Life 
ScienceChonNam National University
300 Yongbong-dong 
Buk-gu, Gwangju 500-757
 
KoreaPhone: +82-(0)62-530-2054
Cell Phone: _82 (0)10-3456-6644
Email: mpizlee@jnu.ac.kr 