One Postdoc and one PhD Positions in Molecular and Cell Biology
Delaware Biotechnology Institute
Newark, Delaware, USA

Application Instructions: Please send a letter of application describing 
research background, a CV, a brief research interest, and the names and contact 
information for three references to: Jung-Youn Lee, Delaware Biotechnology 
Institute, University of Delaware, Newark, DE 19711. Applications may be sent by 
email to jylee@udel.edu.

 
Job Description:
 A postdoctoral position and graduate research assistantship for a PhD student 
are immediately available to work on projects to investigate the molecular 
mechanisms and components of cell-to-cell communication mediated by 
plasmodesmata in plants. We have demonstrated recently that macromolecular 
trafficking through plasmodesmata plays important roles in controlling 
developmental and physiological processes (Lee et al, 2005, Plant Cell, 17:2832-
2847; Lucas and Lee, 2004, Nature Rev Mol Cell Biol. 5:712-726; Lee et al., 
2003, Science, 299: 392-396). The current projects involve molecular dissection 
of plasmodesmal targeting mechanism and identification of plasmodesmal channel 
components. The successful candidates will use a combination of molecular 
biology, reverse genetics, cell biology, and biochemical/proteomics approaches 
to address these questions. Highly motivated and independent researchers who 
will thrive in a collaborative environment is encouraged to apply.

 

A strong background in biochemistry, molecular biology, and/or plant cell 
biology is desirable. Experience in protein-protein interaction, native protein 
purification, and mass spectrometry is a plus. Highly competitive salary and 
benefit will be commensurate with experience.

 

Lee laboratory is housed at the Delaware Biotechnology Institute 
(http://www.dbi.udel.edu/mission.html) which provides a state-of-the-art 
infrastructure and a multidisciplinary research and education environment and is 
ideally located in the heart of the East coast between Washington D.C. and New 
York.

 

 

 

 

 

 
