JOHN INNES CENTRE, Norwich, UK.

POST-DOCTORAL TRAINING FELLOW

Applications are invited for a Post-Doctoral Training Fellow required to carry out research on analysis of the role of FDP, 
a novel bZIP transcription factor related to FD, in plant architecture and development.  Recent work has highlighted the 
role of the transcription factor FD in mediating FT signalling (Wigge et al., Science 309: p1056-1059), and we are now 
interested in studying the role of FDP in development. For informal enquiries about the project please contact Phil Wigge 
directly by e-mail (philip.wigge@bbsrc.ac.uk)
Information about the Wigge lab can be found online:
http://www.jic.bbsrc.ac.uk/staff/philip-wigge/index.htm

Candidates should have a PhD, preferably in developmental or plant biology. Good communication and organisational skills 
with the ability to design, plan and interpret original experiments in an independent manner is essential. The post holder 
will receive additional professional development training as well as on-the-job training and mentoring. The successful 
applicant will benefit from the specific elements of training leading to the JIC post-doctoral training certificate.

This is a 3 year position offered under the terms of the BBSRC Training and Career Development Scheme. Salary on 
appointment will be within the range £23,022 to £26,541 per annum depending on qualifications and experience. JIC offers a 
choice of final salary and stakeholder pensions.

Application forms and further details on eligibility for the BBSRC Training and Career Development Scheme can be obtained 
from our web site http://www.jic.ac.uk/corporate/opportunities/vacancies/index.htm or by writing to the Human Resources 
Department, John Innes Centre, Norwich Research Park, Colney, Norwich, NR4 7UH, UK please quote reference number 15 66 
on all correspondence.  The closing date for completed application forms will be 31 March 2006.    

The John Innes Centre is a registered charity (No223852) grant-aided by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research 
Council and is an Equal Opportunities Employer.


