 
Postdoctoral Opportunity

Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral Researcher in Cell & Developmental 
Biology to study the role of the Arabidopsis cytochrome P450 KLUH in regulating 
plant organ size.  

The successful candidate will join the team of Dr Michael Lenhard, working on the 
genetic and molecular control of plant organ growth. Further details of this 
project and the laboratory can be found at http://www.jic.ac.uk/staff/michael-
lenhard/ and in Anastasiou et al., Dev Cell 13: 843-56 (2007).

The post holder will investigate the movement of the KLUH-dependent growth 
signal, study the function of KLUH-activated genes and screen for mutations in 
the downstream signalling pathway.

The John Innes Centre is a world-class Institute and is looking to appoint an 
exceptional candidate who has, or expects to soon receive, a PhD in Genetics or 
Molecular Biology.  We will be providing the job-holder with opportunities to 
develop their technical and transferable skills during this assignment, by way of 
training programmes, coaching and mentoring.

Essential skills required are a strong background in genetics and molecular 
biology, with a track record reflecting previous research experience; the ability to 
adapt and learn quickly; good communication and organisational skills; and the 
ability to work independently in a young team.

The appointment will be as a Postdoctoral Researcher and the salary will be within 
the range £26,088 to £28,986 dependent upon qualifications and experience.   
Further details of eligibility and reward package are available from 
http://www.jic.ac.uk/corporate/opportunities/vacancies/PDF_Scheme_overview.d
oc
 
For further information and details of how to apply, please visit our web site 
http://jobs.jic.ac.uk or contact Human Resources, The Operations Centre, 
Norwich Bioscience Institutes, Norwich, NR4 7UH, UK, 01603 450462 quoting 
reference 1001761

The closing date for applications will be 28th September 2008.

The John Innes Centre is a registered charity (No. 223852) grant-aided by the 
Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council and is an Equal 
Opportunities Employer.

 
