

LABORATORY RESEARCHER A full-time technical position is available in the laboratory of 
Thomas Leustek in the Rutgers' Biotechnology Center for Agriculture and the Environment. 
The position is to support a plant and microbial molecular biology research and teaching 
laboratory consisting of approximately 7 scientists. The primary responsibility will be 
to carry out research and the opportunity exists for an exceptional person to have a high 
level of research independence. The individual will be expected to keep careful and 
detailed notes and to participate in organizing and preparing data for presentations 
and publications. The individual will also be expected to care for supplies, inventory, 
safety, and hazardous waste disposal. Finally, the individual will work with the supervisor 
and senior personnel to train graduate students and undergraduate students carrying out 
research internships. The successful candidate will have direct experience in at least 
3 of the following areas: (1) nucleic acids, (2) protein/enzymology, (3) 
chemical/metabolite analysis, (4) microbiology, and (5) plant biology/physiology/genetics. 
The individual must be generally familiar with the use of a personal computer and 
word-processing, graphics, and database software. Effective verbal communication and 
organizational skills are necessary. An individual with such skills will typically have 
attained an M.S. degree, however, persons with other degrees will be considered if 
they have the appropriate experience.

Further information about the position and research projects in the Leustek Lab can be 
found at http://aesop.rutgers.edu/~leusteklab

The Leustek lab is located at Rutgers University on the New Brunswick campus.  Located 
approximately in the center of the state, new Brunswick is conveniently located near the 
urban centers of New York City and Philadelphia.  Rutgers University is an equal opportunity employer.

Interested individuals should contact Dr. Leustek by email.




Thomas Leustek, Ph.D.
Professor
Rutgers University
Biotechnology Center for Agriculture and the Environment
Department of Plant Biology and Pathology
59 Dudley Road, Room 328
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08901-8520
Tel: 1(732)932-8165, ext 326
Fax: 1(732)932-0312
Email: LEUSTEK@RUTGERS.EDU
LabWeb: http://aesop.rutgers.edu/~leusteklab/
BiotechWeb: www.biotech.rutgers.edu

also Director of the Rutgers Plant Biology Graduate Program
Web: www.plantbio.net

