The Wurtele/Li Laboratory at Iowa State University is seeking candidate to 
   fill a Postdoctoral Research Associate position in Protein Biochemistry and 
   Biological Networks, to begin immediately. 
   Protein Biochemistry and Biological Networks The successful candidate 
   will join a team of scientists working to uncover novel signaling 
   interactions in plant metabolic networks, in a 4-year project recently 
   funded by the National Science Foundation (MCB#0951170, 
   [1]http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=0951170). The 
   successful applicant will focus on identification of proteins that interact 
   with known or candidate proteins of the starch regulatory network, 
   functional characterization of candidate proteins, and elucidation of 
   protein-protein interactions. Possible biochemical approaches include, but 
   are not limited to, protein purification, protein structure determination, 
   yeast-two-hybrid screening, co-immunoprecipitation and tandem affinity 
   purification. A PhD in biochemistry, biology, chemistry or a related field 
   is required. Publication record should demonstrate expertise in protein 
   functional and structural characterization. Signal transduction and/or 
   bioinformatics expertise is a plus. 

  The candidate will be part of a multidisciplinary team that includes 
  computer scientists, computational biologists, molecular biologists 
  and biochemists. The successful candidate is expected to demonstrate 
  independence and creativity. Good oral and written skills and a strong 
  publication record in refereed journals are required. We seek highly 
  motivated researcher with demonstrated outstanding ability and 
  accomplishment. The position is located in state-of-the-art facilities 
  at Iowa State University in Ames, Iowa and offers competitive salary 
  and benefits with the opportunity for professional growth and 
  advancement. 
  Applications should include a cover letter highlighting qualifications 
  and research interests, current CV, publication list. Have three 
  letters/emails of reference sent from persons familiar with your 
  professional qualifications, include your dissertation advisor as one 
  of the three. For more information regarding application submission or 
  project details, please contact Dr. Ling Li at [2]liling@iastate.edu. 

References 

1. 3D"http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=0951170 
