Senior Research Associate (16908BR) 

Wilmington, DE 

  

Pioneer Hi-Bred, a DuPont business, is currently seeking a Senior Research 
Associate in Wilmington, DE. The Senior Research Associate will be part of a 
team involved in the discovery and transgenic testing of genes for efficacy 
against soybean plant pests and pathogens. The successful candidate will 
contribute to bioassay screens as well as molecular analysis of plants to 
correlate resistance/tolerance phenotypes with gene expression. This 
individual will be responsible for contributing to the identification of 
genes which confer disease resistance and testing such genes for in planta 
efficacy. This will be accomplished by: supporting infection bioassays to 
evaluate plant disease resistance/tolerance; extracting DNA, RNA, protein 
and metabolites from plant samples; generating plant expression constructs 
of identified candidate genes; supporting generation of transiently and 
stably transformed plants; performing molecular analyses to confirm and 
correlate gene expression with observed resistance phenotypes. The 
successful candidate must adhere to safety practices and established 
procedures for handling and disposal of regulated plant material and 
pathogens. Attention to detail and close adherence to experimental protocols 
is mandatory. Must be able to work both independently and as part of a 
collaborative, interactive work team. 

  

Qualifications: 

This position requires a Master's degree or equivalent in biological 
sciences, preferably specializing in molecular biology, plant biology, plant 
pathology or related scientific field with 2 to 5 years of industry/academic 
related experience. Bachelor's degree in biological sciences with a minimum 
of 5 to 10 years of industry/academic related experience is required. 
Experience with basic molecular biology techniques is essential: DNA and RNA 
extraction and manipulation; PCR, RT-PCR; agarose and polyacrylamide gel 
electrophoresis; Northern, Southern, Western blots; gene cloning and 
construct generation. Experience with transient and stable transgenic plant 
generation and molecular analysis is desirable. Practical knowledge of plant 
pathology is preferred with hands-on experience highly beneficial. 
Proficiency with a wide array of computer software including MSOffice, 
VectorNTi, sequence analysis and assembly software such as Sequencher, image 
analysis and databases; ability to quickly master new software. Excellent 
communication and organization skills. Ability to analyze, summarize and 
present data to other team members. Exhibits self-motivation and 
adaptability to change. Demonstrated skill to work effectively on multiple 
projects simultaneously and meet deadlines. 

  

Apply online at www.pioneer.com/careers. Submit to job 16908BR. EOE 