Senior Research Associate (12262BR) 

Wilmington, DE 

  

Pioneer Hi-Bred, a Dupont business, is currently seeking a Senior Research 
Associate in Wilmington, DE. Senior Research Associate (SRA) will primarily 
support discovery research efforts to identify leads to improve important 
traits in corn. The SRA will interact with groups from several departments 
to plan and effectively conduct experiments, record and analyze data. 

  

Duties/Responsibilities: 

Support developing new genetic screens. Assist in constructing cDNA and 
genomic DNA libraries and developing high-throughput genetic screening 
tools. Provide vector/gene construction support and assembly of plant 
transformation vectors. Analyze transgenic plants containing transgenes and 
promoter/reporter gene constructs using standard molecular biology 
techniques. Plan new experiments in consultation with manager. May exercise 
limited technical discretion in design, execution and interpretation of 
experiments. Summarize experiments, manages and analyzes data. Prepare 
reports to manager and collaborators, and occasionally presents results to 
larger audiences. Manage multiple projects and prioritizes individual tasks 
effectively to meet deadlines. Maintain or improves efficient daily work 
place operations. May organize and supervise work of other employees. 

  

Qualifications: 

Bachelor's degree in plant biology, genetics, molecular biology or related 
field and minimum of 2 to 4 years of industry related experience is 
required. Master's degree in plant biology, genetics, molecular biology or 
scientific related field and 0 to 2 years of industry related experience or 
equivalent amounts of education and experience is preferred. The successful 
candidate will possess whole plant analytical skills, have experience with 
genetic screening projects and have a thorough understanding of molecular 
biology techniques. Previous experience with standard molecular biology 
techniques, including Southern, Northern, Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 
and vector/gene construction is required. Experience with model plant 
systems is preferred. 

Excellent communication and organization skills, as well as an eagerness to 
learn new technologies and approaches are required. Computer competency, 
excellent laboratory skills and ability to maintain a detailed laboratory 
notebook are required. Successful candidate must be able to work well with 
others, handle multiple tasks well and pay attention to detail. 

  

  

Application Instructions: 

Apply online at www.pioneer.com/careers. Submit to job 12262BR. EOE 
