Two Ph.D. Research Assistantships in protein biochemistry and in bioinformatics. 

The Wurtele Laboratory at Iowa State University is seeking candidates to fill two positions: a 
Ph.D. Research Assistant in protein biochemistry, and a Ph.D. Research Assistant in bioinformatics,
to begin immediately or summer/fall 2010. The selected candidates will join a team of scientists 
working to uncover novel signaling interactions in plant metabolic networks, in a project recently 
funded by the National Science Foundation (MCB#0951170, 
http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=0951170).
 
 Protein biochemistry candidates will focus on identification of proteins that interact with known 
or candidate proteins of the starch regulatory network, functional characterization of candidate 
genes, and elucidation of protein-protein interactions. Possible biochemical approaches include, 
but are not limited to, protein expression and purification, protein structure determination, yeast-
two-hybrid screening, co-immunoprecipitation and tandem affinity purification. A master's degree in 
biochemistry or related field is preferred for PhD research assistant applicants. Publication record
should demonstrate expertise in protein engineering and protein functional characterization; signal
transduction and bioinformatics expertise is a plus. 

The bioinformatics candidate will model metabolic and regulatory networks. Applicants are expected to 
have strong skills in computer languages and some knowledge of or interest in learning about 
biological networks. 

Applications should include a cover letter highlighting qualifications and research interests, 
current CV, publication list, transcripts, GRE and TOEFL (for non-native speakers of English) scores. 
Have three letters of reference sent from persons familiar with your professional qualifications, 
include your dissertation advisor as one of the three. For more information regarding application 
submission or project details, please contact Dr. Ling Li at liling@iastate.edu.

REFERENCE 
Li L, Foster C, Gan Q, Nettleton D, James MG, Myers AM, and Wurtele ES (2009) Identification of the 
novel protein QQS as a component of the starch metabolic network in Arabidopsis leaves.  Plant 
Journal, 58: 485-498. (Online at http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/cgi-bin/fulltext/121641416/HTMLSTART) 

Mentzen W, Wurtele ES. (2008) Regulon Organization of Arabidopsis. BMC Plant Biology. 8:99. 
(Online at http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2229/8/99)

