Two Post-Doctoral Researchers in Protein biochemistry and biological networks and in Computational 
Modeling for Bioenergy. 

Protein biochemistry and biological networks   The successful candidate will join a team of 
scientists working to uncover novel signaling interactions in plant metabolic networks, in a project 
recently funded by the National Science Foundation (MCB#0951170, 
http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=0951170). The successful applicant will 
focus on identification of proteins that interact with known or candidate proteins of the starch 
regulatory network, functional characterization of candidate genes, and elucidation of protein-
protein interactions. Possible biochemical approaches include, but are not limited to, protein 
expression and purification, protein structure determination, yeast-two-hybrid screening, co-
immunoprecipitation and tandem affinity purification. A PhD in biochemistry, biology, chemistry or
a related field is required. Publication record should demonstrate expertise in protein functional 
and structural characterization. Signal transduction and/or bioinformatics expertise is a plus. 

Computational Modeling for Bioenergy  The postdoctoral researcher would join a 3-year DOE-funded 
project focuses on elucidation of the metabolic and regulatory pathways that are important for 
production of bioenergy from a simple photosynthetic organism. It will integrate innovative, 
proprietary technical advances, global gene expression profiling experiments, and molecular and 
computer science approaches to develop a highly versatile and genetically tractable, microalgal-
based platform for capturing solar energy and using it to convert atmospheric + waste CO2 to high-
energy chemical products with biofuel applications. To evaluate multidimensional metabolomic and 
transcriptomic data, new computational approaches will need to be developed, applied, and made 
available to the public. These computational analyses will reveal how these genetic perturbations 
affect the metabolic network, and provide hypotheses for defining and ultimately refining the 
molecular factors that control accumulation of high value biomolecules. The ensuing software will 
have wide-ranging applications to research not only in bioenergy but also foods, the green chemical 
industry, and medicine. A Ph.D. in computer science or computational biology is required. A strong 
background in computer modeling techniques with some knowledge of database development and 
statistics is required. An understanding of biology/biochemistry as evidenced by coursework is 
preferred.

Both individuals will be part of a multidisciplinary team that includes computer scientists, 
computational biologists, molecular biologists and biochemists.  The successful candidate is 
expected to demonstrate independence and creativity. Good oral and written skills and a strong 
publication record in refereed journals are required. We seek highly motivated researchers with 
demonstrated outstanding ability and accomplishment. The positions are located in state-of-the-art 
facilities at Iowa State University in Ames, Iowa and offers competitive salary and benefits with 
the opportunity for professional growth and advancement. 

Applications should include a cover letter highlighting qualifications and research interests, 
current CV, publication list. Have three letters/emails of reference sent from persons familiar 
with your professional qualifications, include your dissertation advisor as one of the three. For 
more information regarding application submission or project details, please contact Dr. Ling Li 
at liling@iastate.edu.

Web sites:
http://www.gdcb.iastate.edu/faculty/facultyDetail.php?id=111%20Wurtele 
http://metnetonline.org

References: 
Li et al. (2009) Identification of the novel protein QQS as a component of the starch metabolic 
network in Arabidopsis leaves.  Plant Journal, 58: 485-498. 
(Online at http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/cgi-bin/fulltext/121641416/HTMLSTART) 

Mentzen and Wurtele ES. (2008) Regulon Organization of Arabidopsis. BMC Plant Biology. 8:99. 
(Online at http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2229/8/99)

