PhD Position in Plant-Microbe Interaction Signaling

 

at the Albrecht-von-Haller Institute for Plant Sciences, University of
Göttingen in the group of Prof. Volker Lipka (Department of Plant Cell
Biology)

 

The Department of Plant Cell Biology offers a PhD position in plant disease
resistance signaling in Arabidopsis. This fixed-term position is for three
years. The salary, EG 13 TV-L (50%) on the German pay scale, will be in the
range of € 20.000 p.a., the appointment level reflecting qualifications and
experience.

The group of Prof. Volker Lipka analyzes the interaction of Arabidopsis with
adapted and non-adapted fungal pathogens. The Arabidopsis receptor-like
kinase CERK1 mediates perception of the fungal cell wall component chitin and
initiates downstream defense responses (Petutschnig et al., Journal of
Biological Chemistry 285(37): 28902-28911). The available project focuses on
the characterization of potential CERK1 interactors. The candidate will
conduct structure-function analyses, investigate post-translational
modifications and formation of active signaling complexes. The analyses will
involve cell and molecular biology, biochemical techniques as well as
genetics and phytopathology. Applicants should be highly motivated and show a
strong interest in plant biology. They should also have basic experience in
plant molecular biology or cell biology.

 

Informal enquiries about the position are encouraged via
Volker.Lipka@biologie.uni-goettingen.de.

 

Applicants should provide a CV, including the names and contact details of
two referees, and a covering letter addressing the selection criteria.

Please send formal applications, quoting reference number VL1-2011, either by
e-mail to Volker.Lipka@biologie.uni-goettingen.de or by post to Prof. Dr.
Volker Lipka, Georg-August-University Göttingen,
Albrecht-von-Haller-Institute for Plant Sciences, Dept. of Plant Cell
Biology, Untere Karspüle 2, D-37073 Göttingen, Germany. The closing date is
15 July 2011.

 

The University of Göttingen is an equal opportunities employer and places
particular emphasis on fostering career opportunities for female scientists
and scholars. Qualified women are therefore strongly encouraged to apply.
Disabled persons with equivalent aptitude for the position will be favored. 
