Two post-doctoral fellow positions

Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory invites applications for two post-doctoral positions 
from highly enthusiastic critical thinkers with a desire to explore novel genetic 
and molecular mechanisms controlling reproductive success in plants and study 
their role in evolution and domestication. 

One successful candidate will expand upon recent discoveries on genes that 
uniquely control inflorescence production and patterning in the Solanaceae family 
using a variety of genetic, molecular, genomic, and biochemical approaches. 
Tomato, with its extensive genetic, genomic, and phenotypic resources will be 
the primary model as a foray into comparative evolutionary mechanisms 
underlying how the transition to flowering and hormonal regulation contribute to 
simple (the single flower inflorescences of pepper and petunia) and complex (the 
highly branched, multi-flowered inflorescences of tobacco and other wild 
Solanum) inflorescence structures in non-model species.

The other successful candidate will take advantage of natural variation in tomato 
and Arabidopsis to investigate multi-genic complex traits involved in heterosis 
and hybrid break-down. High-resolution quantitative genetics in interspecific 
introgression lines (ILs) will be used to isolate quantitative trait loci (QTL) 
contributing to overdominance. Efforts will also be made to identify loci with 
dosage effects that can cause single gene heterosis. Simultaneously, epistatic 
genes underlying interspecific reproductive barriers that oppose heterosis by 
reducing pre- and post-zygotic viability will be isolated and studied in both tomato 
and Arabidopsis. 

Candidates should have expertise in plant molecular biology and genomics and 
be interested in natural variation, quantitative genetics, and interdisciplinary 
translational research. A background in the study of hormones, transgenic 
techniques, and/or modern fluorescent imaging technologies is highly 
advantageous. Candidates should also show creativity, self-motivation, and have 
strong communication skills for working in a team environment.

Please send a curriculum vitae, statement of interest and the names and contact 
information of three referees to Dr. Zachary Lippman (lippman@cshl.edu)

Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory is a world-renowned research and educational 
institution with programs in cancer, neuroscience, plant biology, genomics and 
bioinformatics. The Laboratory is recognized internationally for its excellence in 
research and educational activities. 

CSHL is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer.




Technician
Cold Spring Harbor laboratory located on the North Shore of Long Island, 
is seeking a lab technician.
The successful candidate will participate in a variety of basic and applied 
research in the area of plant genetics and molecular biology operations 
including DNA isolation, DNA/RNA manipulation, microarray hybridization, 
and new DNA sequencing technologies. Responsibilities will also include 
greenhouse and field work, general laboratory organization, managing 
bacterial and yeast stocks, and maintenance of laboratory supplies.
The ideal candidate will be trained in plant biology or have experience 
working with plants, as well as a molecular background in sub-cloning, 
plasmid construction, DNA and RNA extractions, and PCR genotyping. 
Additional experience with quantitative PCR, Western and Northern 
blotting techniques a plus. A Bachelor's Degree in a scientific discipline is 
required.

Please send a curriculum vitae, a letter of intent, and the names and contact 
information of three referees to Dr. Zachary Lippman (lippman@cshl.edu)
