PostDoc Available - Bioinformatics and "Wet Lab" Postdoctoral Position in Loraine Lab at UNC Charlotte/NCRC

I am looking for a dedicated, enthusiastic postdoctoral researcher to 
work on an NSF supported project investigating mechanisms of cytokinin 
signaling in Arabidopsis. This project is a collaboration with Joe 
Kieber at UNC Chapel Hill, Eric Schaller at Dartmouth, and Dennis 
Mathews at the University of New Hampshire. 

As a postdoc in the Loraine lab, you'll have the opportunity to master 
cutting-edge genomic and computational techniques while at the same 
time developing an experimental system you can use to launch an 
independent career. 

Other experimentally-focused projects in the lab include (a) 
investigating splicing regulation in Arabidopsis and (b) 
characterizing the blueberry fruit transcriptome using next-gen 
sequencing. You would of course have opportunities to contribute to 
these and all other projects underway in the lab. 

Necessary qualifications include: 

(1) Experience with Arabidopsis 
(2) PhD in molecular biology or related discipline 
(3) Basic scripting knowledge (in Unix, perl, or python) and/or 
familiarity with R/Bioconductor 

If you have an outstanding track record in experimental ("wet lab") 
research, did some simple (or complex!) scripting as part of your 
work, discovered you liked it and want to learn more, then this job 
could be a great fit for you. 

For more information about the lab, visit http://www.transvar.org. 

For an idea of the level of computational skills you can develop 
during your postdoc in the Loraine lab, see 
http://teaching.transvar.org. This site describes the year-long 
bioinformatics programming class taken by non-computer science 
students in the UNC Charlotte Professional Science Masters in 
Bioinformatics program. 

The position is located at the North Carolina Research Campus in 
Kannapolis, NC. Your appointment would be as a postdoctoral researcher 
in the Department of Bioinformatics and Genomics at UNC Charlotte, 
which is located about 15 miles south of the NC Research Campus. 

UNC Charlotte is an Equal Opportunity Employer. To apply, please send 
your CV to aloraine@uncc.edu. 
