*Bioinformatics Postdoc* The Loraine lab at UNC Charlotte seeks a 
postdoctoral researcher for primarily computational projects, with 
possibility for experimental work.  Available projects include: Analysis and 
annotation of blueberry transcriptomes and next-generation sequencing data; 
Developing methods, tools, and Web services for mining expression data in 
plants; and developing visualization software for bioinformatics and 
genomics (IGB, Genoviz SDK, TableView, etc.). 
 
*General qualifications:* 
Ph.D. in one of: computer science, applied math, physics, chemistry, 
biology. 
 
*Qualifications, by project:* 
*Analysis and annotation of blueberry NGS data*: Familiarity with molecular 
biology and gene expression regulation; research experience using 
bioinformatics programs; excellent cross-disciplinary communication and 
writing skills; scripting experience and some command-line programming. 
*Co-expression*: Java Web programming (or similar); familiarity with DNA 
expression microarray design and analysis methods, especially R and 
Bioconductor; and sufficient lab training to design expression measurement 
experiments at the bench. 
*Visualization*: User interface development in Java; knowledge of software 
engineering principles; excellent communication skills; experience 
supervising or training junior colleagues; and a track record of high 
productivity and quality in software development. 
 
The position is at the North Carolina Research Campus in Kannapolis, NC, 
located 15 miles north of the UNC Charlotte main campus. 
 
Fringe benefits: Vacation and health insurance coverage with additional 
spousal or dependent coverage available for purchase. 
 
To apply: Email aloraine@uncc.edu with (1) cover letter describing your 
interests and qualifications for the position, (2) a CV, (3) the names and 
contact information for 3 references. 
 
For further information about the lab, please visit http://www.transvar.org. 
 
For information about postdoctoral positions at UNC Charlotte, visit: 
http://www.research.uncc.edu/rs/postdoctoral.cfm
