Postdoctoral researcher position in the Loraine lab at UNC Charlotte: 
 
A postdoctoral trainee position is available starting September, 2008 in the combined 
computational/experimental biology lab of Ann Loraine in the Bioinformatics Research 
Center at UNC Charlotte. 
 
The position will primarily involve bench research but will also have a substantial 
computational component. This position will be an excellent opportunity for a Ph.D. level 
scientist to gain expertise in bioinformatics while building an independent research 
program. For information about on-going projects in the lab, visit 
http://www.transvar.org. 
 
Candidate Profile: 
The ideal candidate should possess outstanding laboratory skills, including demonstrated 
ability to trouble-shoot and/or optimize lab protocols. Candidates should have extensive 
experience in Arabidopsis genetics, e.g., working with T-DNA insertion lines, growing 
plants, and performing crosses. He or she should have some experience applying 
bioinformatics techniques in research or classroom settings, such as simple scripting to 
automate repetitive tasks or using tools like R and Bioconductor to analyze data. Ability 
to learn and willingness to use software tools for managing research are absolutely 
essential. However, PhD-level expertise in computer science or advanced programming 
expertise is neither expected nor required. (We can teach you what you need to know.) 
The position is intended for PhD-level biologists who want to develop an independent, 
lab-based research program while at the same time gaining credentials in bioinformatics. 
 
Duties: 
Plan, perform, and trouble-shoot laboratory experiments; Present research at scientific 
conferences; Provide text and data for funding applications; Write scientific articles; 
Assist in setting up wet lab scheduled to open in October, 2008 at the North Carolina 
Research Campus; Assist in interviewing and training staff research technician for the 
lab; Help develop requirements documents for software development projects; Perform 
analysis of expression microarray data and other genome-scale data sets using custom 
tools developed by the PI and collaborators. 
 
Position Location: 
The position will be located at the North Carolina Research Campus, located around 20 
minutes drive north of the UNC Charlotte main campus. Health insurance coverage is 
provided, with additional spousal or dependent coverage available for purchase. The 
applicant will join a vibrant and growing Bioinformatics program at UNCC, which 
currently includes ten faculty specializing in bioinformatics and computational biology. 
 
To apply: 
Send an e-mail to aloraine@uncc.edu with the following information:  (1) introductory 
letter describing your interests and qualifications for the position, (2) a CV, (3) the names 
and contact information for 3 references, including at least one co-worker (e.g., fellow 
graduate student) from your thesis lab.
