Employer: BASF, The Chemical Company 

Job Title: Plant Biologist 

Job ID: 1201136 

Location: Research Triangle Park, NC 

Type: Full-time/Permanent 

Salary: Very Competitive 

  

Job Description: 

We are the world's leading chemical company because we offer intelligent 
solutions for our customers and for a sustainable future. We link and 
develop people with diverse talents all over the world. For you, this 
means a variety of ways to advance. Not only your performance but also 
your personality matter to us. 

  

At BASF, careers develop from opportunities. BASF - the Chemical 
Company - consolidated its plant biotechnology activities in BASF Plant 
Science in 1998. Today, about 700 employees are working to optimize 
crops for more efficient agriculture, renewable raw materials and 
healthier nutrition. 

  

We are currently looking for a Plant Biologist. The Plant Biologist 
will be a member of the Crop Pipeline function within the BASF Plant 
Science organization. This team performs critical activities necessary 
to advance our plant biotechnology projects from idea to marketplace as 
quickly and effectively as possible. These research and development 
projects focus on enhancing crop performance, productivity, nutritional 
value, and overall plant health. BASF Plant Science is seeking to 
appoint a Plant Biologist for its Research Triangle Park, NC location. 
The Plant Biologist will work as part of a team that implements novel 
phenotypic screens in growth chambers, greenhouse, and field for 
crop-based gene discovery research. The individual will work closely 
with the project teams in developing strategies and methodologies in the 
area of measuring phenotypic performance and will lead the 
implementation of work plans within the Crop Phenotyping group. The 
incumbent will have practical experience in leading projects in growth 
chambers, greenhouses, and/or field settings, developing experimental 
designs, and performing physiological or phenotypic assays. Outstanding 
communication skills are a must. 

  

Required Qualifications: 

* PhD degree in Plant Biology, Plant Genetics, Plant Physiology 
or related field -OR- MS degree in Plant Biology, Plant Genetics, Plant 
Physiology or related field with 4 years of experience in conducting 
independent research -OR- BS degree in Plant Biology, Plant Genetics, 
Plant Physiology or related field with 7 years of experience in 
conducting independent research. 

* Demonstrated experience originating novel scientific 
hypotheses in plant biology, and developing assays to test those 
hypotheses. 

* Experience analyzing and interpreting phenotypic data on 
plants. 

* Demonstrated experience designing experiments and measuring 
plant performance. 

* Willingness to work in challenging environmental conditions. 
(i.e. heat, cold, humidity and wet) 

* Excellent written and oral communication skills. 

* Strong leadership and decision making skills. 

* Experience working in a team environment. 

* Required to travel/work 25% of the time at BASF field 
stations. 

  

Preferred Qualifications: 

* Demonstrated experience in characterizing phenotypic 
differences in genetically variable plant populations, e.g. mutant 
populations, transgenic populations, natural accessions, or cultivars of 
model and/or crop species. 

* Experience with a large number of physiological or phenotypic 
assays, and their design, development and implementation. 

* A strong background in high-throughput phenotyping. 

* A strong understanding of genetics and molecular biology. 

* Experience coaching and/or mentoring others. 

  

This position is within a job family and will be filled at a level 
applicable to the incumbent's qualifications. 

  

To apply, please follow this link: 

http://jobs.basf.us/job/Research-Triangle-Pa-Plant-Biologist-Job-NC-27701/1972538/ 
