Two post-doctoral positions are available immediately in the laboratory of Dr Josette 
Masle, at the Research School of Biology, The Australian National University, Canberra. 
The successful candidates will join a grant funded research program aimed at identifying 
and characterising regulatory networks controlling plant growth and the plasticity of root 
development.
 
Position 1- The successful applicant will investigate the function of the plant TCTP 
protein in the regulation of cellular growth and proliferation and the coordinated 
development of roots and shoot, using both Arabidopsis and cereals as model systems. 
We are particularly interested in elucidating the role of TCTP in the interplay between 
endogenous and exogenous signals during development under changing environmental 
conditions. The project follows from our recent work in Arabidopsis (Berkowitz et 
al.2008, Plant Cell, 20:3430-3447) where TCTP was identified as a controller of seedling 
growth, root development and tip growth and a likely mediator of TOR activity as in non-
plant eukaryotes. The ideal candidate should have a strong background and demonstrated 
experience in the area of gene regulation, signal transduction and cell/developmental 
biology. Experience in genetics and bioinformatics would be valuable. 
 
Position 2 relates to the role of phospholipids and lipid signalling in plant development 
and root function. We are specifically interested in phosphoethanolamine N-
methyltransferase (PEAMT) enzymes which in plants is thought to exert a major control 
on the de novo synthesis of phosphatidylcholine, the dominant membrane phospholipid as 
in most eukaryotes. We have identified a novel PEAMT isoform in wheat and 
demonstrated specificity within the family as well as novel regulatory processes of 
 PEAMTs (Jost et al. 2009, JBC in press). The successful applicant will further 
investigate the function and regulation of plant PEAMTs using a combination of genetic, 
biochemical and physiological tools and genetic material readily available in my lab, 
including for a comparative genomic approach between cereals and model organisms. 
Strong background and demonstrated experience in biochemistry and in molecular 
genetics, including protein biochemistry are required. Experience in research related to 
stress signalling and/or cell biology would be an advantage.
 
Both positions are for 3 years.
Enquiries: Josette Masle, T: 02 61254410, E: Josette.Masle@anu.edu.au
 
Interested applicants should apply on line.
Further information on the positions and selection criteria are also available on line:
http://jobs.anu.edu.au/PositionDetail.aspx?p=921  for position 1, reference # A395-09TG
 
http://jobs.anu.edu.au/PositionDetail.aspx?p=922  for position 2, reference # A394-09TG
 

