Postdoctorate for Pineapple Improvement

Regular, Full-Time, Limited Term  (approximately twelve (12) months in duration), RCUH Non-
Civil Service position with the USDA,ARS, Pacific Basin Agricultural Research Center, located 
in Hilo, Hawaii. Continuation of employment is dependent upon program/operational needs, 
satisfactory work performance, and availability of funds.  Minimum Monthly Salary: 
approximately $3,222.00 Duties: Assist in the improvement of pineapples flowering by 
molecular and transformation techniques.  Minimum Qualifications:  Education:  Doctorate from 
an accredited college or university.  Experience:  Two to four (2-4) years of relevant experience, 
which includes graduate thesis work.  Abil/Know/Skills:  Knowledge of molecular biology and 
regulation of flowering in model or crop systems is highly desirable. The position requires 
molecular biology experience in genes and promoter cloning, design and construction of plant 
transformation vectors, gene expression analysis, and evaluation of transgenic plants. Should be 
skilled in scientific writing and be able to prepare manuscripts and reports.  Applicants should 
have a full understanding of confidentiality.  Desirable Qualifications:  Ph.D. from an accredited 
college or university in Plant Molecular Biology, Plant Biotechnology, Plant Physiology, 
Horticulture or a related field.   At least two (0-2) years of experience (which includes graduate 
thesis work) with the following: gene cloning, molecular characterization of flowering, 
experience in plant transformation, and transgenic plant evaluation.  Inquiries: Tracie Matsumoto 
(808) 959-4358 (Hawaii).  Application Requirements:  The preferred method of applying for a 
job is through our on-line application process.  Please go to www.rcuh.com, click on 
Employment and navigate to Job Announcements/Apply for a Job. However, if you do not have 
access to the Internet, you may apply by submitting resume; cover letter including Recruitment 
ID#, referral source, narrative of your qualifications for position and salary history; names, 
phone numbers and addresses of three supervisory references and copy of 
degree(s)/transcripts/certificate(s) to qualify for position by fax (808) 956-5022 or mail to 
Director of Human Resources, Research Corporation of the University of Hawaii, 2530 Dole 
Street, Sakamaki Hall D-100, Honolulu, HI 96822 before the closing date.  EEO/AA Employer.


