UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 
DEPARTMENT OF GENETICS 
 
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN PLANT ECOLOGICAL GENETICS 
 
A postdoctoral position is available in my lab to examine the genetic 
basis of complex traits in plants. I am particularly interested in an 
individual with skills in QTL mapping, specifically genetic marker 
development in non-model species. The project is part of a larger 
project on the ecological genetics of adaptation in plants. 
 
I am interested in hiring someone with some background in 
evolutionary or ecological genetics and with excellent bench skills. 
The ideal candidate will be organized, pay close attention to detail, 
and be able to work both independently and in collaboration with 
others. Independent side projects on the part of the postdoc are 
encouraged and will be supported intellectually and financially if 
feasible. A Ph.D. is required 
 
There is also an opportunity for this postdoc to gain independent 
teaching experience (for extra pay) by teaching a small, 1-credit, 
discussion section for our undergraduate evolutionary biology course 
each semester. 
 
The start date is flexible. The initial appointment is for one year, 
with an additional two years' funding available conditional on 
satisfactory performance.  The annual salary for this position will 
be commensurate with experience, and includes benefits. The 
University of Georgia is an Equal Opportunity Employer and I 
encourage applications from candidates from groups underrepresented 
in the life sciences. 
 
Please send me an e-mail (mauricio@uga.edu) with the following 
information:  a statement detailing your interest and qualifications 
for the position, a CV, a statement of your research interests, and 
the names and contact information for 3 people who could write on 
your behalf. The position is available immediately and applications 
will be reviewed until the position is filled. 
 
The Mauricio lab is a part of the diverse and interactive UGA 
Department of Genetics, for which more information can be found at 
http://www.genetics.uga.edu/. 
 
Rodney Mauricio 
Department of Genetics 
Davison Life Sciences Building 
University of Georgia 
Athens, GA  30602-7223 
mauricio@uga.edu 
http://www.genetics.uga.edu/mauriciolab
