Post-Doctoral Fellow Positions
Department of Biology
Colorado State University

Advertisement
Medford Lab

Two post-doctoral positions are available in the Medford Lab in the Department 
of Biology at Colorado State University. We have developed synthetic signal 
transduction systems in plants and linked the signaling systems to 
computationally designed receptors. Input allows plants to be highly specific 
detectors for substances of interest (environmental pollutants, explosives, 
etc.) and provides means to control some forms of signal transduction for basic 
studies.

A Ph.D. in molecular biology, plant molecular biology or a related field is 
required.  Applicants should have experience in molecular biology, gene cloning 
and analysis of transgenic plants. Experience in transgene expression and signal 
transduction in plant systems as well as skill in written and verbal 
communication is desirable.  The incumbents are expected to interact with other 
post-docs, graduate students, and part-time undergraduate students.  Duties 
include a variety of molecular biology techniques including synthetic gene 
construction, bacterial expression, production and analysis of transgenic 
plants, planning experimental approaches based on research literature, and 
interpreting results. The successful individuals will be self-motivated and 
capable of independent thought and research. The positions will start as soon as 
possible.

Colorado State University is located in Fort Collins, Colorado a city of 120,000 
located at the base of the Rocky Mountains about an hour north of Denver.  
Colorado boasts 300+ sunny days a year and numerous recreational activities 
exist from the nearby mountains such as world class skiing and hiking.

Please submit your curriculum vitae indicating publications, a brief statement 
of research experience, and names, emails and telephone numbers of three 
references to Dr. June Medford to the website: 
<http://www.natsci.colostate.edu/searches/BioPdoc>http://www.natsci.colostate.ed
u/searches/BioPdoc. For further information, please contact Dr. Medford.  
Applications received by January 2, 2007 will receive full consideration.

Contact Information:
Dr. June Medford
Department of Biology
Colorado State University
Fort Collins, CO 80523-1878
Phone:  970-491-7865
FAX:  970-491-0649
Email: <mailto:June.Medford@colostate.edu>June.Medford@colostate.edu

Colorado State University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer 
and complies with all federal and Colorado laws, regulations, and executive 
orders regarding affirmative action requirements in all programs. To assist 
Colorado State University in meeting its affirmative action responsibilities, 
ethnic minorities, women and other protected class members are encouraged to 
apply and to so identify themselves.


