Plant Synthetic Biology Post-doc Positions 
 
Three post-doctoral positions are available in the Medford Lab in the Department of Biology at 
Colorado State University.  Projects include work on the cutting edge field of plant synthetic 
biology with a focus on synthetic signal transduction, gene circuits for detector plants and 
sustainable plant-made biofuels. 
 
The Medford lab is one of just a few labs, world-wide, to apply synthetic biology to plants. 
Synthetic biology allows plant biologists to both probe our understanding of natural systems and 
re-design or re-wire plants systems to produce innovative biotechnological tools (see Bowen et al. 
2008, Cultivating plant synthetic biology from systems biology.  New Phytol.  178: 583-587).  One 
group has defined synthetic biology as "the engineering of biology: the synthesis of complex, 
biologically based (or inspired) systems, which display functions that do not exist in nature. This 
engineering perspective may be applied at all levels of the hierarchy of biological structures-from 
individual molecules to whole cells, tissues and organisms". Examples of synthetic biology's 
accomplishments include reprogramming cell morphology, synthetic multi-cellular pattern 
formation and novel biological functions. 
 
In plants, for example, we have used synthetic biology to produce a synthetic signal transduction 
system and linked rationally designed components so that input from computationally re-designed 
receptors produces a highly specific detector plants for substances like environmental pollutants 
or explosives. The synthetic signal transduction system is being used to dissect complex 
eukaryotic signaling and is being improved to control biological input and output (e.g., perception 
and response).  Also, using computationally re-designed proteins we have, along with a new 
biotech company, produced the means to removed unwanted DNA sequences such as antibiotic 
and herbicide resistance genes from plants. 
 
A Ph.D. in molecular biology, plant molecular biology or a related field is required.  Ideal 
applicants will have experience in molecular biology, gene cloning and analysis of transgenic 
plants. Experience in transgene expression and signal transduction in plant systems as well as 
skills in written and verbal communication are desirable. The incumbents are expected to interact 
with other post-docs, graduate students, and part-time undergraduate students.  Duties include a 
variety of molecular biology techniques including synthetic gene construction, bacterial 
expression, production and analysis of transgenic plants, planning experimental approaches 
based on research literature, and interpreting results. The successful individuals will be self-
motivated and capable of independent thought and research. The positions will start as soon as 
possible. 
 
Colorado State University is located in Fort Collins, Colorado a city of 120,000 located at the base 
of the Rocky Mountains about an hour north of Denver.  Colorado boasts 300+ sunny days a year 
and numerous recreational activities exist from the nearby mountains such as world class skiing 
and hiking. 
 
 
Please send your curriculum vitae indicating publications, a brief statement of research 
experience, and names and telephone numbers of three references to Dr. June Medford via email 
(June.Medford@colostate.edu<mailto:June.Medford@colostate.edu>).  For further information, 
please contact Dr. Medford.  For full consideration applications must be received by February 27, 
2009 by 5 p.m (local time). 
 
Contact Information: 
Dr. June Medford 
Department of Biology 
Colorado State University 
Fort Collins, CO 80523-1878 
Phone:  970-491-7865 
FAX:  970-491-0649 
Email:  June.Medford@colostate.edu<mailto:June.Medford@colostate.edu> 
 
 
Colorado State University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer and complies with 
all federal and Colorado laws, regulations, and executive orders regarding affirmative action 
requirements in all programs. To assist Colorado State University in meeting its affirmative action 
responsibilities, ethnic minorities, women and other protected class members are encouraged to 
apply and to so identify themselves. 
 
Colorado State University is committed to providing a safe and productive learning and living 
community. To achieve that goal, we conduct background investigations for all final candidates 
being considered for employment. Background checks may include, but are not limited to, 
criminal history, national sex offender search and motor vehicle history. 

