3 years Post-doctoral research position in Plant Biology, 
Marseille, France
Contact: to apply, please send your CV and references to Benoît 
Menand: benoit.menand@univmed.fr
Project title: Evolution of the integration between environment and 
development in land plant.
Position: We are looking for a motivated candidate with experience in 
molecular biology. An interest in plant physiology and evolution is also 
required. Training on the model plant Physcomitrella patens can be 
provided from the lab.
Starting date: end of 2008 or early 2009
Project abstract: As multicellular organisms with a sessile life style and 
an indeterminate growth, land plants constantly adapt their 
development to environmental stresses. However, the mechanisms 
that sense this environment changes are not well characterized in 
plants. The long term objective of our group is to determine the 
network of molecular mechanisms that integrate environment sensing 
and growth and development of plants and to understand how these 
mechanisms have evolved through land plant evolution. The TOR 
(Target Of Rapamycin) kinase is a conserved central regulator of 
eukaryotic growth in response to environmental stresses that has 
integrated new functions through evolution of different organisms 
(Wullschleger et al., 2006. Cell 124, 471). It is thus an entry point 
towards understanding the evolution of land plant adaptation to 
environmental changes (Menand et al, 2002, PNAS 99, 6422; Deprost 
et al., 2007, EMBO Rep. 8, 864). This project proposes to study the 
TOR pathway in the moss Physcomitrella patens which belongs to a 
very basal group of land plants (Menand et al. 2007, Science 316, 
1477; Rensing et al., 2008, Science 319, 64). We will take advantage 
of new genetic tools developed in P. patens to create plants in which P. 
patens TOR (PpTOR) activity can be rapidly activated or inhibited. 
Such plants will then be used to determine the function of PpTOR 
during the simple developmental response of the moss to 
environmental changes and to dissect the PpTOR signalling pathway by 
physiological and genomic tools. The results will be compared with 
data obtained in parallel in the recently diverged angiosperm 
Arabidopsis thaliana and in other eukaryotes in order to obtain a global 
picture of the evolution of the mechanisms that integrate 
environmental signals into growth and development in land plants.
The host laboratory: The Plant Genetic and Biophysic Laboratory 
(LGBP) UMR6191 CNRS-CEAUniversité de la Méditerranée, Marseille 
France.
LGBP is situated within the Science and Technology Park of Marseille-
Luminy (South of France), one of Europe’s leading research and 
teaching clusters. The LGBP has all equipments for molecular biology 
and biochemistry and is also equipped for plant culture facilities. It has 
access to state of the art microscopy facilities. The LGBP bring 
together Bio-physicians and Plant scientists to tackle the fundamental 
question of plant response to environmental changes
 
