

Four positions are immediately available at Mendel Biotechnology, situated in
the San Francisco Bay area.  We offer an exciting and challenging scientific
environment plus an attractive package of salary, stock options, and benefits,
including a 401(k) plan.  If you are interested in any of the positions
described below, please reply to the email address listed with that job.

------------------------

Senior Scientist - Protein Biochemistry

Mendel Biotechnology, Inc., invites applications for a Senior Scientist position
in plant protein biochemistry. The successful applicant will lead a research
team responsible for determining the molecular mode of action of plant
regulatory proteins, including transcription factors. Candidates must have a
broad range of expertise in molecular biology techniques with an emphasis on
protein analysis. In particular, applicants must have a track record of
successfully implementing techniques for protein purification, antibody
generation, and determination of protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions.
We are particularly interested in receiving applications from candidates with
prior experience in animal or yeast based systems who wish to apply their
knowledge in plants. Computational biology expertise is also desirable.

Applicants must hold a Ph.D., have at least five years of postdoctoral
experience, preferably in an industrial setting, and possess a keen appetite
for hypothesis driven science. Excellent written and oral communication skills
in the English language are considered essential.

Applications, including the names, mailing addresses, and e-mail addresses of at
least two references should be submitted to:
job55@mendelbio.com

------------------------

Research Scientist - Protein Biochemistry

Mendel Biotechnology, Inc., invites applications for a Research Scientist
position in plant protein biochemistry. The successful applicant will work as
part of a research team responsible for determining the molecular mode of
action of plant regulatory proteins, including transcription factors.
Candidates must have substantial experience in molecular biology techniques,
with an emphasis on protein analysis methods such as protein purification,
chromatin IP, co-immunoprecipitation, and gel shift assays. Computational
biology expertise is also desirable.

Applicants must hold a Ph.D. or equivalent qualification, and have at least two
years of postdoctoral experience, preferably in an R&D environment. Strong
written and oral communication skills in the English language are considered
essential.

Applications, including the names, mailing addresses, and e-mail addresses of at
least two references should be submitted to:
job56@mendelbio.com

------------------------

Research Scientist - Plant Stress Physiology

Mendel Biotechnology, Inc., invites applications for a Research Scientist
position in plant stress physiology. The candidate should have an extensive
background in plant physiology or crop ecology, supplemented with a thorough
understanding of modern molecular techniques. Preference will be given to
candidates who indicate expertise in energy metabolism, photosynthesis, or
plastid/mitochondrial/nuclear communication. Prior experience with Arabidopsis
is not a requirement, applicants who have worked with model crop species such
as corn or soybean will also be considered.

Applicants must hold a Ph.D. or equivalent qualification, and have at least two
years of postdoctoral experience, preferably in an R&D environment. Strong
written and oral communication skills in the English language are considered
essential.

Applications, including the names, mailing addresses, and e-mail addresses of at
least two references should be submitted to:
job57@mendelbio.com

------------------------

Research Associate - Expression Profiling

Mendel Biotechnology, Inc., invites applications for a Research Associate
position in expression profiling. The candidate should have a background in
DNA/RNA isolation, cDNA synthesis and PCR. Excellent oral and written
communication skills, including the ability to organize, graph and present data
(e.g., in Excel and Powerpoint) are essential. Previous experience with
microarrays and the Affymetrix platform is desired, and familiarity with
databases such as ORACLE and MS Access is preferred, but not required.

Applicants should have a BS in Biology, Plant Science, Molecular Biology, or
related field. The candidate should be willing to work autonomously, and must
be comfortable working on multiple projects in a collaborative environment.

Applications, including the names, mailing addresses, and e-mail addresses of at
least two references should be submitted to:
job58@mendelbio.com

--------------------




