Post-doctoral positions, meiosis and recombination team INRA Versailles
(France)

Two post-doc positions are available in the "Meiosis and recombination"
team at IJPB (INRA Versailles, France) , on the ERC project MeioSight.
The contracts should start early in 2012.
Summary of the project:
Meiosis is an essential stage in the life cycle of sexually-reproducing
organisms. Indeed, meiosis is the specialized cell division that reduces
the number of chromosomes from two sets in the parent to one set in
gametes, while fertilization restores the original chromosome number.
Meiosis is also the stage of development when genetic recombination
occurs, thus being the heart of Mendelian heredity. Increasing our
knowledge on meiotic mechanisms, in addition to its intrinsic interest,
would have also important implications for agriculture and medicine. In
the last decade Arabidopsis emerged as one of the prominent models in
the field of meiosis. Indeed, the meiotic field benefits greatly from a
multi-model approach with several kingdoms represented, highlighting
both conserved mechanisms and variation around the theme. Arabidopsis
emerged as a very good model to study meiosis, notably because of the
possibility of large scale genetic studies and the wide range of
molecular and cytological tools. In this project we aim to use several
innovative genetic screens to decipher meiotic mechanisms much further,
by isolating a large number of novel genes and characterizing their
functions in an integrated manner (genetics, molecular biology and
cytoogy). This will allow us to push far beyond the current knowledge
about all aspects of meiosis, including recombination, cell cycle and
sister chromatid cohesion, and their functional relationships.

The Institut Jean-Pierre Bourgin, which represent a large part of the
INRA of versailles, is one of the largest research centers in Plant
Sciences in Europe. It gathers a unique ensemble of experimental
resources and pluridisciplinary expertise in biology. The INRA of
Versailles ranked second in the 2011 Best Places to Work in Academia
survey (The scientist,
http://the-scientist.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/Best-Places-To-Work-Academia2011.pdf)

The two post docs will form a team with two lab technicians/engineers on
the MeioSight project. Preference will be given to a highly motivated,
enthusiastic, and independent candidate with a Ph.D. and proven
experience in molecular genetics, molecular biology and/or cytogenetics.
Interested applicants should contact Raphael Mercier (Contact:
raphael.mercier@versailles.inra.fr) and send a CV, brief summary of
research experience, and names and e-mail addresses of (2 or 3) persons
from whom confidential references may be sought. 
