 
PLANT ENERGY BIOLOGY ARC CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE IN AUSTRALIA 
 
Post-doctoral Research Associate(REF: 2191) 
 
A leading centre for proteomics approaches to plant energy metabolism 
 
2 year appointment, available immediately 
Salary range: Level A $48,905 - $66,367 p.a. - minimum starting salary 
for appointee with PhD will be $61,827 p.a. 
Closing date: Friday, 14 March 2008 
The ARC Centre of Excellence in Plant Energy Biology includes four 
research teams undertaking research into organelle function and plant 
metabolism using functional genomics approaches in Arabidopsis. The 
Centre has state-of-the-art equipment for proteomics and metabolomics 
approaches and major resources for microarray analysis, plant 
genetics, imaging and computing. 
 
A Research Associate is required to work on proteomic analysis of 
changes in mitochondrial function in plants during oxidative and 
environmental stress. The project will involve use of quantitative 
proteomic techniques, protein-protein interaction by monoclonal 
antibody based immuno-precipitation, purification of intact organelles 
and membranes and assessment of oxidative damage to mitochondrial 
proteins. Applicants must have a PhD in protein biochemistry or 
molecular biology, or related discipline. For further information 
regarding the research please visit the Centre website, or contact 
Professor Harvey Millar by email: hmillar(at)cyllene.uwa.edu.au. 
 
APPLICATION DETAILS: Applicants must address the selection criteria. 
Written applications quoting the reference number, personal contact 
details, qualifications and experience, along with contact details of 
three referees should be sent to Director, Human Resources, The 
University of Western Australia, M350, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley WA 
6009 or emailed to jobs@uwa.edu.au by the closing date. Details of 
selection criteria can be found at 
http://www.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/webpages/opportunities/employment_uwa.html 
 
-- 
Prof. A. Harvey Millar 
ARC Centre of Excellence in Plant Energy Biology 
& School of Biomedical, Biomolecular and Chemical Sciences 
Molecular and Chemical Sciences, M310 
The University of Western Australia 
Perth, 6009, WA 
AUSTRALIA 
 
Ph +61 8 6488 7245 
Fax +61 8 6488 4401 
hmillar@cyllene.uwa.edu.au
