Postdoctoral Position
INRA, Versailles, France

A 2-year postdoctoral research position is available starting September 2007 to 
study the molecular mechanisms of fertility restoration in the Ogura cytoplasmic 
male sterility (CMS) system. CMS is a maternally inherited trait in higher 
plants that prevents the production of functional pollen. The Ogura CMS, 
initially found in radish and later transferred to rapeseed, is controlled by 
the expression of the orf138 mitochondrial locus. The expression of orf138 can 
be suppressed by the Rfo gene product, whose presence in the nuclear genome 
restores male fertility. The Rfo gene was recently cloned and revealed to code 
for a PentratricoPeptide Repeats protein. The position will concern the 
biochemical characterization of the restorer protein to better understand the 
mechanisms by which Rfo prevents the synthesis of ORF138. PPR repeat containing 
proteins have been found to be major players in organelle gene expression and 
were shown to be involved in various aspects of RNA processing. By extension, 
the characterization of Rfo will provide key elements to better understand the 
molecular activities of this exciting protein family, especially the way they 
functionally interact with specific RNA targets.
Candidate will work at the Versailles Center of the National Institute for 
Agronomical Research (INRA), which possesses state-of-the-art research 
equipments, and facilities devoted to post-genomic technologies, including cell 
imaging, functional proteomics, transgenic plants etc…
Candidates with strong background in biochemistry/molecular biology and related 
research experience are especially encouraged to apply. Extensive experience 
with RNA purification will be an advantage. Salary will be commensurate with 
experience. To be eligible, candidates should not be French. To apply, send 
resume and a cover letter describing your interests, as well as names and 
contact information of two references to mireau@versailles.inra.fr
Web sites for more information:
http://www-ijpb.versailles.inra.fr/en/institut/generalites.htm
http://www-ijpb.versailles.inra.fr/en/sgap/equipes/organites/index.htm


