 
Post Doctoral Positions In  
Plant Molecular Biology and Bioinformatics 
UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA 
  
  
Description 
  
  
Expressions of interest are sought to fill postdoctoral positions within the Plant Molecular 
Biology and Biotechnology group, at the Melbourne School of Land and Environment at The 
University of Melbourne, highest ranked Research University in Australia. .  The group is part 
of Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence (CILR).  The CILR is a multi-nodal 
center of leading Australian researchers focusing on legume functional genomics. This 
world-class research center has the critical mass of human, intellectual and infrastructure 
resources.  We are interested in recruiting highly motivated individuals with a desire to 
succeed and contribute to the internationally competitive research activities of the laboratory 
focusing on molecular mechanisms of differentiation and cell specific gene regulation during 
meristem development, floral transition and reproductive differentiation. A brief description of 
research projects is provided below. 
  
Understanding role of Transcriptional Repression in controlling Male Germ Line 
Development in Plants   
 
Research in our laboratory has identified a germline-restrictive silencing factor (GRSF) a 
transcription factor that appears to play a pivotal role in delineating plant reproduction by 
preventing the expression of germ cell specific genes in somatic cells (Haerizadeh F, Singh 
M B, Bhalla P L (2006) Transcriptional repression distinguishes somatic from germ cell 
lineages in a plant.  Science. 313, 496 - 499.) We have provided evidence that GRSF 
recognizes silencer sequences in the promoters of genes specific to the germline, stably 
repressing these genes in cells other than germ cells. The aim of this project is to further 
dissect the mechanism of this novel repression pathway in plant reproduction by addressing 
questions such as : What are the key target genes for GRSF-imposed transcriptional 
repression, and what is their role in germ line development and what protein partners/co-
repressors help GRSF to achieve long-term repression of male germ line genes in non male 
germ line cells? 
 
Bioinformatic Analysis of Transcriptional Programs Controlling Plant Stem Cell and Germ 
Line Development 
  
This position is an opportunity for PhD level scientist in molecular biology or computational 
biology with experience in bioinformatics to assist with interrogation and analysis of 
sequence data generated by 454 and Solexa high throughput sequencing technologies.  The 
appointee is required to provide bioinformatics support for research involving high throughput 
sequencing technologies, participate in team-based research on a. microRNAs and 
epigenetic regulation of male germ line, plant stem cells and meristem Development and 
floral transition in flowering plants.  High level of computing skills and expertise in the 
application of bioinformatic tools to the analysis of biological data and information is 
essential. 
 
MicroRNAs and Epigenetic Regulation of Meristem Development 
  
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that regulate expression of many genes. 
 We have recently discovered a network of shoot apical meristem specific miRNAs. These 
include novel plant miRNAs being reported for the first time.  The postdoctoral research 
project will involve investigation of role of these novel miRNAs in meristem development and 
floral transition using computational and experimental tools.  The experimental approach will 
include expression profiling of individual miRNAs through gel blots, microarrays, in situ 
localizations combined with gain-and loss-of-function studies in transgenic plants.  
  
Molecular Control of Stem Cell Maintenance in Plants  
  
Shoot apical meristems (SAMs) provide niches for self-sustaining groups of stem cells that 
play a critical role in plant development being founder cells of all aerial plant parts. 
 Maintenance of these stem cells is thus essential for repetitive organ initiation throughout 
plant lifecycle.  Using high throughput gene expression profiling technologies we have 
identified subset of novel genes that are differentially expressed in shoot apical meristem of 
pea and soybeans.  The postdoctoral appointee will participate in a project addressing 
developmental role of these genes.  The approaches will include laser capture 
microdissection, mutant analyses, in situ hybridisations, and reporter gene expression and 
gain-and loss-of-function studies in transgenic plants.  
  
  
Qualifications 
 
Applicants should possess a PhD, together with relevant experience in one or more fields of 
functional genomics, bioinformatics, molecular genetics and cell biology and be able to 
provide evidence of proven research productivity in the form of publications in refereed 
journals. Candidates should also be experienced in general molecular biology techniques 
and ideally have expertise in one or more of following techniques/approaches; protein-DNA 
interactions, protein-protein interactions, ChIP, protein biochemistry and bioinformatics. 
  
  
Salary 
 
of 9% 
The positions are being offered at Research Fellow ( Level A) position with salary range of 
$64,001-$69,280 p.a.  Candidates with exceptional achievements can be considered for 
appointment at a higher salary level. 
. 
The research group web address: 
http://www.landfood.unimelb.edu.au/research/Biotech/index.html 
  
Selected publications from the group  
  
WONG CE, SINGH MB, BHALLA PL (2009) Molecular processes underlying floral transition 
in the soybean shoot apical meristem. The Plant Journal Mar;57(5):832-45 
  
HAERIZADEH F, WONG CE, SINGH MB, BHALLA PL (2009) Genome-wide analysis of 
gene expression in soybean shoot apical meristem.  Plant Mol Biol. Apr;69(6):711-27. 
  
SINGH M B and BHALLA P L (2007) Control of male germ cell development in flowering 
plants. BioEssays 29, 1124-1132. 
  
HAERIZADEH, F., SINGH M B and BHALLA P L (2006). Transcriptional repression 
distinguishes somatic from germ line lineages in a plant.  Science 313, 496-499. (Rated 
"Exceptional by Faculty of 1000 Biology) 
   
SINGH M B and BHALLA P L (2006) Plant stem cells carve their own niche.  Trends in Plant 
Sciences 5 (11), 241-246. 
   
  OKADA T, ENDO M, SINGH M B and BHALLA P L (2005) Analysis of Histone H3 gene 
family in Arabidopsis and identification of male gamete cells specific variants AtMGH3.  The 
Plant Journal 44 (4), 557-568. 
  
 
Application Details 
 
 For further details contact: Professor Prem L Bhalla, tel. +61 3 8344 9651, 
email premlb@unimelb.edu.au 
or Professor Mohan B Singh, tel. +61 3 8344 5051, email mohan@unimelb.edu.au
