
Faculty Positions in Plant Molecular and Cell Biology Centre for Organelle 
Research, University of Stavanger, Norway 

As part of the newly established Centre for Organelle Research (CORE) at The 
University of Stavanger we invite applications for two positions as 
Professor/Associate Professor in Plant Molecular Cell Biology/Biochemistry at 
the Faculty of Science and Technology in the Department of Mathematics and 
Natural Sciences. The appointees will become an integral part of CORE, which has 
recently received strategic funding from the University of Stavanger that fund 
the advertised positions in addition to new research infrastructure.
 
Applicants with research activities related to organelle molecular cell 
biology/biochemistry in model plants will be given priority. 

The appointees must be able to document extensive academic qualifications within 
molecular cell biology/biochemistry and through her/his work to have 
demonstrated scientific competence within the field. The ability to initiate and 
direct externally-funded research projects will be given high priority. The 
appointee must document basic competence in teaching skills or, alternatively, 
enter a program that provide such competence within a period of two years. The 
teaching language is normally Norwegian but teaching is also offered in English. 
The scientific language is most often in English. 

State Salary Code. Professors, NOK 494.200-564.400/annum (EUR 61,000- 
70,000/annum), Associate Professors, NOK 403.700-467.900/annum (EUR 50,000- 
58,000/annum). For particularly qualified applicants higher salaries may apply. 
Both positions come with an attractive start-up package including research 
staff. The positions provide automatic membership in the Norwegian Public 
Service Pension Fund and members may apply for favorable home investment loans. 

Further information can be obtained from Professor and Head of Department 
Simon Geir Møller, + 47 51831717 simon.g.moller@uis.no and on 
http://www.uis.no/about_us/vacant_positions/

Please submit a complete application in three copies to Elisabeth Stornes 
Fiska (elisabeth.s.fiska@uis.no), Dept of Mathematics and Natural 
Sciences, University of Stavanger, 4036 Stavanger, Norway, including: 1) Cover 
letter with previous research experience and future plans, 2) CV, 
3) The form "Application form" found on the above website, 4) 
Certificates/diplomas, 5) up to 15 publications. The application should be 
marked st.id 8200011

Application deadline 1 March 2007

Stavanger is a city of 115 000 inhabitants at the southwestern coast of Norway 
with picturesque surroundings of fjords and mountains. Stavanger is the European 
Capital of Culture in 2008 and is an international city with a dynamic 
environment and excellent opportunities for sports such as skiing and hiking. 
The airport is situated 10 km from the city, and has direct flight connections 
to major cities such as Copenhagen, Aberdeen, London, Amsterdam and Frankfurt.
