Postdoctoral Research Associates

Postdoctoral Positions in Plant Molecular and Cell Biology Centre for Organelle 
Research, University of Stavanger, Norway 

The University of Stavanger has available two three-year postdoctoral research 
associate positions in Plant Molecular and Cell Biology,in the Department of 
Mathematics and Natural Sciences. The National Functional Genomics Programme and 
The Norwegian Research Council funds both positions. The successful applicants 
will be part of a research team studying the molecular cell biology of plastid 
division and Fe-S cluster biogenesis in Arabidopsis thaliana. 

Plastid Division (Position code 8200008): Identification of novel plastid 
division proteins and biochemical, molecular and cellular characterization of 
novel and already identified proteins. 

Fe-S cluster biogenesis (Position code 8200014): Biochemical, molecular and 
cellular characterization of protein involved in Fe-S cluster biogenesis and 
repair in chloroplasts and mitochondria in Arabidopsis.

Both projects involve a range of molecular and cell biological techniques 
including protein-protein interactions, advanced microscopy, proteomics, 
microarrays, and protein biochemistry. Applicants should therefore be highly 
motivated and have a background in plant molecular and cell biology.

The positions are salaried according to the State Salary Code: NOK 
389,600?418,400/annum (EUR 47,300- 50,800/annum). The positions give automatic 
membership in the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund, which guarantees 
favorable retirement benefits. Members may also apply for home investment loans 
at favorable interest rates. 

Further information about the positions can be obtained from Professor 
Simon Geir Møller, telephone +47 51 83 17 17, e-mail simon.g.moller@uis.no
. 
Project particulars and application procedures can be found at 
http://www.uis.no/about_us/vacant_positions/ 

Please submit a complete application (including the position code) to 
Elisabeth Stornes Fiska (elisabeth.s.fiska@uis.no), Dept of Mathematics and 
Natural Sciences, University of Stavanger, 4036 Stavanger, Norway, including: 1) 
Cover letter with previous research experience, 2) CV, 3) The form "Application 
form" found on the above website, 4) Certificates/diplomas, 5) Letters of 
recommendation. 

Application deadline 28 February 2007

Stavanger is a city of 115 000 inhabitants at the southwestern coast of Norway 
with picturesque surroundings of fjords and mountains. Stavanger is the European 
Capital of Culture in 2008 and is an international city with a dynamic 
environment and excellent opportunities for sports such as skiing and hiking. 
The airport is situated 10 km from the city, and has direct flight connections 
to major cities such as Copenhagen, Aberdeen, London, Amsterdam and Frankfurt.

