University of Oxford
Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics

Bioinformatician/Statistical Geneticist working on resequencing, genetic mapping 
and deletion mapping of Arabidopsis thaliana.

Grade 7: £27,466, £33,780 per annum

Applications are invited for a bioinformatician/statististical geneticist to work on two 
novel projects on the genome and genetics of the plant Arabidopsis thaliana. 

The first project (taking approx 2/3 of the time) is to resequence, assemble and annotate 
the genomes of 17 accessions of A. thaliana. It is part of a BBSRC-funded collaboration 
between Prof Richard Mott, University of Oxford, and Dr Paula Kover, University of 
Manchester, and Dr Ewan Birney, European bioinformatics Institute. The project 
involves the analysis of short-read sequence data generated by Illumina/Solexa 
instruments with the aim of assembling each genome against the reference sequence, 
calling sequence variants and determining the locations and sequence of insertions and 
deletions. The variation data will be used to impute the SNPs in a large panel of 
recombinant inbred lines descended from these genomes, in order to perform high 
resolution genetic association mapping. In collaboration with EBI, the genomes will also 
be annotated and the functional effects of sequence variants predicted. The post-holder 
will have the opportunity to contribute to all of these areas but will be primarily 
responsible for the assembly and variant-calling stages. 

The second project (approx 1/3 of the time) is a neutron mutagenesis study to identify 
genes affecting hypocotyl growth in .A thaliana. It is a BBSRC-funded collaboration 
between Prof Mott, Dr Ioannis Ragoussis (WTCHG) and Prof Nick Harberd (Dept Plant 
Sciences). The post-holder will develop and apply statistical methods to analyse tiling 
microarray array data with the aim of identifying short genomic deletions generated by 
mutagenesis in a large-scale screen.

The interdisciplinary nature of these projects implies a diverse and stimulating array of 
challenges relating to high-throughput sequencing, functional genomics, biology, 
statistics and computer programming. Excellent interpersonal skills are required. The 
successful applicant should hold a Ph.D or MSc in the natural sciences, genetics, 
bioinformatics, statistics or computer science (applicants without a PhD would be 
considered only if they can demonstrate a significant body of work of post-doctoral 
quality in the field, eg from publications). Experience in plant genetics/bioinformatics 
and fluency in programming languages such as R, PERL, JAVA or C/C++ would be 
considered favourably. 

The position is graded at level 7 and is for three years initially. A detailed job description 
quoting reference H5-08-061-RM is available from the Personnel Administrator (tel: 
01865 287508, email Personnel@well.ox.ac.uk  or from our web page, 
www.well.ox.ac.uk/vacancies.  Informal enquiries should be made to 
Richard.Mott@well.ox.ac.uk. To apply please send your CV with a letter of application 
and the names and addresses of two referees to the Personnel Administrator, Wellcome 
Trust Centre for Human Genetics, Roosevelt Drive, Oxford, OX3 7BN, or by fax to 
01865 297516 or email to personnel@well.ox.ac.uk.  The closing date for applications is 
3rd October 2008. 





