Victorian AgriBiosciences Centre
Research Scientist
Plant Functional Genomics

A Research Scientist position in Plant Functional Genomics is available for
highly motivated individual to join the Victorian AgriBiosciences Centre
situated in metropolitan area of Melbourne, Australia.

The successful candidate will join a dynamic and driven team of researches
in Plant Functional Genomics group, focusing on engineering of secondary
metabolite pathways essential for the key agronomical traits, such as
forage quality, plant health and adaptation to biotic and abiotic stresses
in forage grasses. The successful applicant will collaborate with different
plant molecular biology, plant functional genomics, TC and transformation
groups  and state-of-the -art computational biology infrastructure
developing bioinformatics tools for the management of metabolomics data,
identification of the metabolites and subsequent reconstruction of
metabolic pathways.

Main Selection Criteria:

1.    Extensive practical experience in plant molecular biology and plant
functional genomics
2.    Experience in functional metabolomics and/or in protein biochemistry
and protein-protein interaction highly desirable
3.    Knowledge of plant metabolic pathway analysis is desirable
4.    Experience in the management of research projects and in the
supervision of staff and students.
5.    High level capacity to communicate with quality and authority, in
both written and oral form, to a diversity of audiences and to publish,
patent or licence the results of scientific research.

Requirements include: Applications are invited from experienced motivated
researchers who have PhD and post-graduate training in molecular biology,
biochemistry, molecular physiology or related disciplines. The position is
for 3 years.

Deadline for receiving applications:  June 30 2006.

Please contact Dr Aidyn Mouradov (aidyn.mouradov@dpi.vic.gov.au) for
project description and enquires about the role and send him an application
addressing the Key Selection Criteria, as well as letter outlining research
experience and interests, C.V. and the e-mail addresses of three referees.






Dr  Aidyn Mouradov

Principal Research Scientist

Victorian AgriBiosciences Centre

Primary Industry Research Victoria

1 Park Drive

Bundoora,

Victoria 3086

Australia



Phone: +61 3 9479 5188

Fax:      +61 3 9479 3618

E-mail:  aidyn.mouradov@dpi.vic.gov.au


