Advertised in:	The Australian (HES) Wednesday, 12 November 2008
	International Notice Board, 17 November 2008

RESEARCH ASSOCIATE  (REF: 2581 )
ARC CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE, PLANT ENERGY BIOLOGY

*	3 year appointment
*	Salary range:  Level A $50,372 - $68,358 p.a. minimum starting salary for appointee with 
PhD will be $63,682 p.a.
*	Closing date:  Friday, 9 January 2009

The ARC Centre of Excellence in Plant Energy Biology at The University of Western 
Australia includes four research teams undertaking research into organelle function and plant 
metabolism using functional genomics approaches in Arabidopsis.  The Centre has state-of-
the-art equipment for proteomics and metabolomics approaches and major resources for 
microarray analysis, plant genetics, imaging and computing.

We are seeking a suitably qualified postdoctoral Research Associate to work on an 
independently-funded project on mass spectrometry (MS) analysis of leaf senescence in 
Arabidopsis and wheat leaves using state-of-the-art MS imaging approaches. The project will 
involve the use of MALDI-TOF-TOF to study spatial changes in protein and metabolite 
abundance during leaf senescence under a variety of experimental treatments.  Applicants 
must have a PhD in protein biochemistry or molecular biology or related discipline  Some 
assistance with relocation expenses (if applicable) may be negotiated.  For further 
information regarding the Centre please visit the website: 
http://www.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/ or contact Professor Harvey Millar by email 
hmillar@cyllene.uwa.edu.au for more information on the project.

* PLEASE NOTE: The University will be closed from Thursday 25 December 2008 until 
Monday 5 January 2009.

APPLICATION DETAILS: For copies of the position description please access the 
website http://jobs.uwa.edu.au/.  Written applications quoting the reference number, 
personal contact details, qualifications and experience, along with contact details of three 
referees should be sent to Director, Human Resources, The University of Western Australia, 
M350, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley WA 6009 or emailed to jobs@uwa.edu.au by the closing 
date.

National Employer of Choice for Women

