

These positions are located within The Centre of Excellence for Plant Metabolomics at The University of Western Australia, 
Perth, Western Australia



<http://www.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/>ARC CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE IN PLANT ENERGY BIOLOGY

Outstanding opportunities to be involved in an exciting international research initiative in a world class research 
centre in a city with exceptional quality of life.

          2 appointments to December 2010  from a date as soon as possible
          Salary Range:  Research Associate Level A  $45,660 - $61,963 p.a. - minimum starting salary for appointee 
with PhD will be $57,724 p.a.
          Salary range:  Research Fellow Level B  $65,225 - $77,456 p.a.
          Level of appointment will be commensurate with experience
          Closing date:  Friday, 1 September 2006

The Centre of Excellence for Plant Metabolomics employs metabolomic and genetic approaches to study molecular plant 
physiology, using Arabidopsis as the model.  It is closely associated with the ARC Centre of Excellence in Plant Energy 
Biology, which has a state-of-the-art equipment for proteomics, microarrays, plant genetics and imaging.

RESEARCH ASSOCIATE/RESEARCH FELLOW (Metabolic Biology)  (REF: 1442)
This position is to study the role of central carbon metabolism in growth and stress responses in plants.  Mutant isolation, 
genetic modification, metabolome and transcriptome analyses will be employed.  A PhD in biochemistry, molecular biology, 
plant physiology or related discipline is essential.

RESEARCH ASSOCIATE/RESEARCH FELLOW (Metabolomics)  (REF:1443 )
This position is to provide metabolomics expertise, particularly that employing LC- and GC-MS and to undertake fundamental 
research.  A PhD in biochemistry, chemistry or related discipline is essential.

For further information regarding the positions please contact Professor Steven Smith on email 
<mailto:ssmith@cyllene.uwa.edu.au>ssmith@cyllene.uwa.edu.au or visit the ARC Centre website 
<http://www.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/>http://www.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/.

Application Details: Separate applications must be submitted if applying for both positions.  For copies of the 
selection criteria please access the website http://jobs.uwa.edu.au/. Applicants must address the selection criteria. 
Written applications quoting the reference number, personal contact details, qualifications and experience, along with 
contact details of three referees should be sent to Director, Human Resources, 
The University of Western Australia, M350, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley WA 6009 or emailed to jobs@uwa.edu.au by the closing date.

Committed to international excellence




Administrative Officer
ARC Centre of Excellence in Plant Energy Biology
The University of Western Australia
35 Stirling Highway
CRAWLEY  6009  WA
ph 61 08 6488 4436
fax 61 08 6488 4401  


