A PhD student position is available with Josh Mylne, an Australian Research 
Council Queen Elizabeth II Fellow and the current John S. Mattick Fellow ( 
www.imb.uq.edu.au/mylne). Dr Mylne is based within the Chemistry & 
Structural Biology Division of the Institute for Molecular Bioscience at 
The University of Queensland (www.uq.edu.au) in Brisbane, Australia. This 
is a 3-year position and carries a tax-free stipend of $AUD 22,860 ($AUD 1 
= $US 1.03). 

The project pursues the evolutionary origin of ultrastable and bioactive 
seed peptides, found in sunflower to emerge by hijacking a seed protein and 
its maturation machinery (http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/NChemBio.542). The 
project is multi-disciplinary and will involve next generation sequencing, 
de novo transcriptome assembly, molecular biology, Arabidopsis genetic 
engineering and mass spectrometry. There is also scope to acquire skills in 
NMR structural biology. 

Applicants should have a degree in Biology, Biochemistry or a related 
discipline, with excellent communication skills. Experience in plant 
research, molecular biology, and biochemistry techniques is a plus. 
Interested candidates should send before December 12th, their CV and a 
letter of motivation including a brief description of previous activities 
to j.mylne@imb.uq.edu.au. Short listed candidates will be asked to provide 
2-3 letters of reference. 

The Institute for Molecular Bioscience is a world-class research institute 
located at The University of Queensland, in Brisbane, Australia. The IMB's 
mission is to decipher the information contained in the genes, proteins and 
molecules of humans, animals and plants. It houses 32 research groups in 
the Divisions of Computational Biology and Genomics, Chemical and 
Structural Biology, Molecular Cell Biology, and Molecular Genetics and 
Development. Our emphasis is on quality basic research and its translation 
into medical and biotechnological outcomes. 

The University of Queensland (UQ) is both the largest and oldest university 
in Queensland. Recently, UQ was given an overall ranking as one of the top 
100 universities in the world by the Times Higher Education, with a ranking 
of 74. UQ has 1011 full-time life science researchers and was ranked as the 
top Australian university in life sciences and 26th in the world, according 
to Times Higher Education. UQ was also voted one of the top three 
international academic institutions outside the USA in The Scientist 
magazine's annual Best Places to Work in Academia 2010 survey. 

References: 
Mylne & Wigge (2011) Nature Chemical Biology 7:666-667. 
Mylne et al. (2011) Nature Chemical Biology 7:257-259. 
