RESEARCH ASSOCIATE (REF: 4213) 
SCHOOL OF CHEMISTRY AND BIOCHEMISTRY 
The University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia 

An opportunity to use biochemistry and genetics to study drug-like seed 
peptides 

- 2 year appointment available immediately 
- Salary: Level A $81,194 p.a. (1 AUD = 1.04 USD) 
- Plus 17% superannuation 
- Closing date: Friday, 14 December 2012 

The newly-formed Mylne laboratory is located at The University of Western 
Australia and is using forced and natural evolution to understand how 
proteins and genes work. The focus is on plant peptides, proteins and the 
biochemistry underlying their synthesis. The laboratory has access to 
facilities within the School of Chemistry and Biochemistry and The ARC 
Centre of Excellence in Plant Energy Biology including NMR, protein 
crystallography, state-of-the-art mass spectrometry as well as Illumina 
HiSeq and miSeq platforms. 

Applications are invited from a suitably qualified scientist to work in a 
small, multi-disciplinary team environment on the genetic origin and 
biosynthesis of a new class of seed proteins that emerged genetically over 
12 million years ago. This project will explore why plants have continued 
making these mini-proteins and whether it's the same reason drug designers 
are so interested in the founding member of this mini-protein class. The 
successful candidate will use biochemical and genetic approaches to 
investigate this peptide class. Researchers with significant expertise in 
peptide mass spectrometry and protein biochemistry are urged to apply. See 
http://mylne.org for recent publications. Applicants must have a PhD in 
molecular biology, biochemistry or related discipline. Some assistance with 
relocation expenses (if applicable) may be negotiated. 

THE UNIVERSITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Established in 1911, The University of 
Western Australia (UWA) is the largest and oldest university in the state 
of Western Australia with more than 24,000 students and 3,500 staff. UWA is 
a Group of Eight university - a coalition of the top research universities 
in Australia - and a member of the Worldwide Universities Network, a 
partnership of 18 research-led universities from Europe, Africa, the 
Americas and the Asia-Pacific. Recently, UWA was given an overall ranking 
as one of the top 100 universities in the world by Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University's Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU); in the Life and 
Agricultural Sciences disciplinary field UWA ranked 26th. 

TO APPLY OR FOR MORE DETAILS: Download the PDF at 
http://mylne.org/files/doc2609783.pdf or ref #4213 "Research Associate" at 
the UWA HR website ( 
https://www.his.admin.uwa.edu.au/jobvacs/external/academic/ads.htm) 