Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology 
New Faculty Positions in Plant Science 
 
The Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology (OIST http://www.oist.jp) invites 
applications for new faculty positions as it enters a period of growth in preparation for 
transition to an international graduate university in 2012. OIST provides a world-class 
research environment in newly completed facilities in an area of distinctive culture, 
unique ecology, and outstanding natural beauty. 
 
Successful candidates will be given the opportunity to excel in their chosen area of 
research, and will be expected to contribute to graduate teaching, research supervision 
and other academic activities. Applicants should have a PhD or equivalent degree, and 
demonstrate excellence in research.  
 
The initial appointment will be as Principal Investigator (PI) or Independent New 
Investigator (INI) for a term of five years.  When the transition to a graduate 
university is completed in 2012, it is planned that PI and INI positions will change to 
a tenure track system with Assistant Professors, Associate Professors, and Professors. 
Some appointments will be made on a joint or part-time basis. Substantial internal 
funding will be provided to support the faculty member's research, based on a 5-year 
research plan, which is renewable after scientific review.  
 
About 15 positions in total will be filled in a wide range of areas, but the search 
specifically includes young plant scientists.  The non-departmental structure of OIST 
and orientation toward interdisciplinary research permits flexibility in appointing 
applicants who are able to introduce new research areas or enhance existing areas.  
Established research areas include genomics, developmental biology, mathematical 
and computational biology, molecular and cell sciences and neuroscience.  New 
research areas include plant growth, plant biomass and energy plants such as algae.  
 
At a time when worldwide support for research is increasingly risk-averse, and grant 
funding places an ever-growing burden on faculty, OIST promotes innovative 
research in a highly facilitating and supportive environment.  This is achievable 
because OIST has internal research funding, offers outstanding central research 
facilities, and consults faculty on the design of new laboratory space. Central research 
facilities at OIST include core facilities for genomics, rodent vivarium, radioisotope 
use, electron microscopy, and supercomputing facilities. 
 
OIST is committed to being international with more than 50% of faculty and 
researchers from outside Japan. The official language of OIST is English.  OIST is an 
equal opportunity, affirmative action employer and encourages applications from 
women. 
 
More details regarding the aims of the search and advantages of working at OIST are 
available in the Information for Applicants in the application package that is 
downloadable from the website (http://www.oist.jp/en/newsevent/careers/542-faculty- 
positions.html). Applications should be submitted in accordance with the instructions 
in the application package. Applications for the current search close 31, July 2010. 
Interviews will take place in late August/September, with a view to making 
appointments early in 2011. 
 
 
