Plant Scientists,

Please let your undergraduates know about a 2010 summer research opportunity
for students interested in applying their quantitative science or biology
background to problems in plant biology. The iPlant Collaborative is
supporting an Interdisciplinary Computational Thinking and Plant Biology
Research Program for Undergraduates (Interdisciplinary UBRP-CT:
http://ubrp.arizona.edu/iplant). This is a 12 week paid summer research
experience (roughly $300/week) with many additional enrichment activities (
http://ubrp.arizona.edu/iplant/default.cfm?id=supplement). The program takes
place at the beautiful University of Arizona campus in Tucson (
http://www.arizona.edu/, webcam: http://www.cs.arizona.edu/camera/ ).
Additional stipends for travel, room and board are included for students who
are not from the Tucson area. Students majoring in computer science,
mathematics, management information systems, statistics, engineering,
physics, plant sciences, or plant-related biology and who are US citizens or
permanent residents of the US are eligible to apply. The application
deadline is Feb. 1, 2010.

Interdisciplinary UBRP-CT is supported through the iPlant Collaborative (
http://iplantcollaborative.org/), an interdisciplinary, NSF funded
initiative to build a cyberinfrastructure to facilitate solving grand
challenge problems in the Plant Sciences. This program offers students an
opportunity to work on a cross-disciplinary team applying their skills to a
research problem at the forefront of Plant Biology. Students don't need any
specific background, just a desire to apply their current knowledge and
skills to problems in plant biology.

Students must be willing and able to arrive on the UA campus on Sunday, May
16 to participate in UBRP-CT orientation on May 17, 2010. Round trip airfare
will be provided from the visiting student's home institution to Tucson and
an allowance of $100/week will be provided for living expenses in Tucson in
addition to wages earned for working in the laboratory. Students are
required to submit a letter of recommendation from a college professor in
their major and an official transcript as part of the application. If
accepted, students must also provide proof of fall 2010 enrollment at their
home institution and proof of US citizenship (or permanent residency) in the
US.

Please share this information with your undergraduate students; applications
are especially encouraged from (but not restricted to) students of
underrepresented groups. Note the Feb. 1, 2010 deadline.

Please contact Carol Bender (bender@email.arizona.edu, 520-621-9348) if you
have questions about this program.

Thank You,
Martha

Dr. Martha L. Narro
Director Education, Outreach, Training
iPlant Collaborative
Keating 445
University of Arizona
520-626-6814
