Post-doctoral research associate position available at Umeå 
Plant Science Centre

Biosynthesis and development of Cell Walls

     A post-doctoral position is available in the Umeå Plant Science Center, Sweden to join a 
research program studying the biosynthesis and developmental dynamics of cell walls. The group 
has a long track record in research on xylem development and wood formation using Populus and 
Arabidopsis. The project will be supervised by Prof Björn Sundberg (Populus and cell walls) and 
Dr Totte Niittylä (Arabidopsis and primary metabolism). The group has a well-developed 
international contact network and is a partner in several national excellence centres and European 
projects. 
     The successful applicant will join the research to work and further explore one or several 
topics related to ongoing cell wall research. The work will mainly involve functional genomics 
and protein localization in vivo as well as creation and characterization of Arabidopsis and poplar 
mutants. Applicants should have a PhD in plant biology, biochemistry/chemistry or, background 
in molecular genetics and -techniques, and a genuine interest to carry out experimental plant 
research. Previous research experience on cell walls and confocal microscopy are highly 
desirable. The applicant must have adequate skills in English language and be able to easily 
communicate and discuss science. The position can be started as soon as is appropriate. Funding 
is for 1+1 years and the salary will be approx. 25.000 SEK/month (before tax).
     Umeå Plant Science Centre (UPSC http://www.upsc.se/ ) is a centre of experimental plant 
biology in Umeå, Sweden. UPSC provides excellent facilities for plant cell wall research and a 
unique set-up to study poplar and Arabidopsis biology. There are about 170 persons from 32 
different countries working at UPSC. Umeå is a vibrant university town and the cultural capital of 
northern Sweden with good access to Stockholm and the rest of the world.
     The application including a letter of interest detailing research experience, achievements 
and publications, curriculum vitae and the names of three references should be sent to Björn 
Sundberg (Bjorn.Sundberg@genfys.slu.se) and Totte Niittylä (totte.niittyla@genfys.slu.se). 
Position is open until a suitable candidate is found. 

Publications of interest

Mellerowicz E, Sundberg B. 2008. Wood cell walls: Biosynthesis, developmental dynamics and their implication for wood properties. 
2008. Current Opinion Plant Biology 11:293-300.
Siedlecka A, Wiklund S, Peronne MA, et al.. 2008. Pectin methyl esterase inhibits intrusive and symplastic cell growth in developing 
wood cells of Populus. Plant Physiology 146: 554-565.
Andersson-Gunneras S, Mellerowicz EJ, Love J, et al. . 2006. Biosynthesis of cellulose-enriched tension wood in Populus: global 
analysis of transcripts and metabolites identifies biochemical and developmental regulators in secondary wall biosynthesis. Plant 
Journal.: 144-165
Hertzberg M, Aspeborg H, Schrader J, et al. 2001. A transcriptional roadmap to wood formation. PNAS. 98: 14732-14737
Mellerowicz EJ, Baucher M, Sundberg B, et al.. 2001. Unravelling cell wall formation in the woody dicot stem. Plant Mol. Biol. 47: 
239-274
Niittylä, T., Fuglsang, A.T., Palmgren, M.G., Frommer, W.B. and Schulze, W.X. (2007). Temporal analysis of sucrose-induced 
phosphorylation changes in plasma membrane proteins of Arabidopsis. Mol Cell Proteomics 6, 1711-1726.
Niittylä, T., Comparot-Moss, S., Lue, W-L., Messerli, G., Trevisan, M., Seymour, M.D., Gatehouse, J.A., Villadsen, D., Smith S.M., 
Chen, J., Zeeman, S.C. and Smith A.M. (2006). Similar protein phosphatases control starch metabolism in plants and glycogen 
metabolism in mammals.J. Biol. Chem. 281, 11815-11818.
Niittylä, T., Messerli, G., Trevisan, M., Chen, J., Smith, A.M. and Zeeman, S.C. (2004). A previously unknown maltose transporter 
essential for starch degradation in leaves. Science 303, 87-89.
