Postdoctoral Position in Plant Developmental Genomics 
Gregor Mendel Institute, Vienna, Austria 

A postdoctoral position is available in Michael Nodine's group (http://www.gmi.oeaw.ac.at/research-groups/michael-nodine) 
at the Gregor Mendel Institute of Molecular Plant Biology (GMI) beginning in the Fall/Winter of 2012. The successful 
candidate will use cutting-edge genome-wide approaches to investigate the functions of small regulatory RNAs and 
epigenetic phenomena during early plant embryogenesis. Applicants should have a PhD and experience with Arabidopsis 
molecular genetics or genomics. Those with previous experience working with Arabidopsis embryos or RNA-Seq technology 
are especially encouraged to apply. 

The GMI is a research institute in Vienna, Austria that is committed to excellence in plant molecular biology 
(http://www.gmi.oeaw.ac.at/). It is located in a new building on the Vienna Biocenter Campus (VBC) 
(http://www.viennabiocenter.org/). The VBC is an international, English-speaking campus that is world-renown 
for its molecular and cellular biology research including plant molecular biology and RNA biology. Due to a 
combination of superb colleagues, and state-of-the-art facilities and support 
(http://www.gmi.oeaw.ac.at/resources-1), the GMI provides a world-class research environment for post-doctoral 
training. Moreover, the GMI offers competitive salaries and benefits, and child-care is available within the 
VBC. Vienna is not only a great place for research, but is also consistently ranked as one of world's best 
cities to live. 

In addition to the web-sites listed above, please refer to the following publications for more background information: 

Nodine, M.D. and Bartel, D.P. (2012) Maternal and paternal genomes contribute equally to the transcriptome of early 
plant embryos. Nature, 482: 94-97. 

Nodine, M.D. and Bartel, D.P. (2010) MicroRNAs prevent precocious gene expression and enable pattern formation during 
plant embryogenesis. Genes and Development, 24: 2678-2692. 

If you are interested in this position, please send a one-page cover letter describing your research experience and 
future interests, a CV and contact information for 2-3 references to Michael Nodine (michael.nodine@gmi.oeaw.ac.at). 
Review of applications will begin on August 27th, 2012 and will continue until the position is filled. 