The *Biology Department* of Macalester College invites applications for a 
tenure-track position in /*biochemistry */at the assistant professor level to 
begin Fall 2008.

We seek applicants who are committed to excellence in teaching at the 
undergraduate level and who are dedicated to developing an active research 
program that engages students in research.   The successful candidate will teach 
at all levels of the biology curriculum and will offer courses cross-listed with 
Chemistry that support our biochemistry concentration.  In addition, it is 
expected that the candidate will be able to contribute more broadly to the 
College curriculum by offering courses that support interdisciplinary programs 
such as Environmental Studies, Cognitive and Neuroscience Studies, and/or our 
First Year Seminar program. 
The Biology Department is housed in a newly renovated/expanded science building 
with state-of-the-art laboratory facilities and equipment.   We offer 
competitive salary, benefits and start-up funds.  The most qualified candidates 
will have postdoctoral and teaching experience.

To apply, send a letter of application, curriculum vitae, statement of teaching 
philosophy and research plans, and 3 letters of reference to: Dr. Lin Aanonsen 
(aanonsen@macalester.edu), Chair, Department of Biology, Macalester College, St. 
Paul, MN 55105 by October 15, 2007.
Macalester College is a highly selective, private liberal arts college in the 
vibrant Minneapolis-Saint Paul metropolitan area, with a population of 
approximately three million people and home to numerous colleges and 
universities, including the University of Minnesota. Macalester's diverse 
student body comprises over 1800 undergraduates from 50 states and the District 
of Columbia and over 90 countries. The College is proud of its long-standing, 
mission-driven commitment to outstanding academic excellence with a special 
emphasis on internationalism, multiculturalism, and service to society. We are 
especially interested in applicants dedicated to the pursuit of excellence in 
both teaching and research/creative activity within a liberal arts college 
community. As an Equal Opportunity employer supportive of affirmative efforts to 
achieve diversity among its faculty, Macalester College strongly encourages 
applications from women and members of underrepresented minority groups.

For additional information about Macalester College and the  St. 
Paul/Minneapolis area visit: http://www.macalester.edu/biology/Twin_Cities-
Mac_Facts.pdf

