University of Helsinki is one of the leading multidisciplinary research universities in the world and 
among the top ten in Europe. Some 35,000 students are currently pursuing an undergraduate or a 
postgraduate degree at the University and the staff totals over 8000. The University budget is ~600 million. 

The Faculty of Biological and Environmental Sciences with its neighbouring units at the Viikki 
Biocenter form the largest and most prominent international unit of biological and environmental 
research and teaching in Finland. The Faculty staff numbers over 400 and its budget is ~35 million.  
The Faculty consists of the Department of Biosciences in Viikki, the Department of Environmental 
Sciences located in Viikki and Lahti, and three biological stations at Kilpisjärvi, Lammi, and Tvärminne.

University of Helsinki is launching a 

TENURE TRACK SYSTEM

for teaching and research personnel, which aims to enhance the predictability, competitiveness and 
attractiveness of an academic career and promote international collaboration at the University.  

The University will employ talented and motivated individuals, who have received their doctoral 
degree some 3 to 7 years ago and have subsequently earned scientific and other merits required in 
their fields.   The appointees will be employed as assistant professors with an employment contract 
for 2 to 5 years depending on their background and experience. Following a successful work record 
that meets the pre-determined criteria, the contract will be continued with the second fixed-term 
contract, after which the employee can be given tenure as a professor. 

When assessing the qualifications of each candidate, attention will be paid to scientific merits and 
teaching experience. In addition, working abroad and other international experience and success in 
obtaining research funding will be considered as merit. 

The Faculty of Biological and Environmental Sciences declares open for application one position in 
the field of 

GENE REGULATION BY ENVIRONMENT

The position will be placed at the Department of Biosciences in the discipline of Genetics.  The 
Department has undertaken to give appropriate support to the appointee's planned career advancement 
by, for example, a start-up package to be separately agreed upon and by covering the labour costs of 
assisting research staff. Additionally, the Department will provide the opportunity for the appointee 
to maintain and develop his/her research collaboration networks by, e.g. offering a working phase 
abroad for a reasonable period.     

The assistant professor's area of research will be environmentally caused alterations in gene 
regulation in cells or organisms and elucidating underlying molecular mechanisms. These types of 
environmental factors/cues play an important role, for example, in plant, microbial, developmental 
or cancer genetics. The appointee will also be required to provide research-based teaching and 
development of graduate and post-graduate studies in one's field, supervision of master's and 
doctoral theses and postdoctoral researchers. The assistant professor will also be expected to 
develop the research collaboration network in his or her interdisciplinary field, to establish and 
lead an active research group of a high international standard, and to obtain external research 
funding from national and/or international sources.  

The University of Helsinki offers a salary dependent on qualifications and work experience ranging 
from a minimum 4,000 euro up to a maximum of 4,600 euro gross per month for a full-time position.
 
The operational environment description for the position will be found at: 
http://www.helsinki.fi/bio/faculty/administration/open/index.html

The applicants are requested to enclose with their application a CV in English, a list of 
publications, a summary of experience and merits to be taken into account when assessing teaching 
skills, and other documents which may be of importance in the selection process, or a university 
portfolio containing the documents and data listed above, please see 
http://www.helsinki.fi/bio/faculty/administration/open/professor.html
 In addition, please enclose a 2-page (max.) presentation in English, on how the applicant would 
develop the research of his/her field.

Applications addressed to the Faculty of Biological and Environmental Sciences should be delivered 
with the enclosures to the following address: Registry of the University of Helsinki. P. O. Box 33 
(Yliopistonkatu 4), 00014 University of Helsinki, or 
hy-kirjaamo@helsinki.fi.  The closing date for applications is 13th December 2010 at 15.45 local 
Helsinki time.

Further information may be obtained from Professor Tapio Palva, +358 9 191 59600, 
tapio.palva@helsinki.fi.

International Staff Services at the University of Helsinki offers the internationally recruited 
personnel all-around services to prepare for and facilitate their stay in Finland, see details: 
http://www.helsinki.fi/intstaff/.

Helsinki, 21 October 2010
Central Administration

www.helsinki.fi/university

