Royal Holloway University of London, UK is advertising a vacancy at senior 
lectureship / readership in the area of genetics. 

The position is one of two senior lectureship / readership vacancies in the 
School of Biological Sciences. We are looking for candidates with at least post-
doctoral experience and with strong evidence of research excellence. Successful 
candidates will be expected to demonstrate the potential to maintain an 
extramurally funded research program.

For more information about Plant Science at Royal Holloway University of London, 
see the profile in latest edition of the UK GARNish Newsletter 
http://garnet.arabidopsis.org.uk/garnish_dec06.pdf

Applications are invited for the appointment of two Senior Lecturers or Readers, 
one in Neuroscience and the other in Genetics, from exceptional, 
internationally-recognised researchers with proven track records of scholarship, 
research productivity and attracting research funds. 

The School of Biological Sciences (SBS) at Royal Holloway, University of London 
(RHUL) (http://www.rhul.ac.uk/Biological-Sciences) has four highly-integrated 
and dynamic research centres: Biomedical Sciences; Plant Molecular Sciences; 
Ecology, Evolution & Behaviour Sciences and Chemical & Bioanalytical Sciences. 
The School holds a grade 5 research assessment (RAE) status, which denotes 
international excellence  and a maximum score of 24 in the teaching quality 
assessment (QAA) rating. Research and teaching activities are underpinned by 
technologies spanning functional genomics, metabolomics, molecular genetics,  
microbiology, gene therapeutics, computational and systems biology, advanced 
cell biology, model organism analyses, population studies, ecology, evolutionary 
biology, mathematical biology and advanced microscopy facilities (e.g. CLSM, 
FRET).

RHUL-SBS is based in state-of-the-art facilities, which have just undergone a 
£14 million upgrade and on the beautiful RHUL multi-faculty green-field campus 
to the west of London, 15 minutes from Heathrow Airport and 35 minutes from 
central London. Informal inquiries should be directed to the Head of School, 
Professor Peter Bramley (tel no: 44+(0)1784 443555; email: 
p.bramley@rhul.ac.uk), or SBS Director of Research, Professor George Dickson 
(tel no: 44+(0)1784 443545; email: g.dickson@rhul.ac.uk).

Further details and an application form are available from the Personnel 
Department, Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham, Surrey TW20 0EX; tel: 
01784 414241; fax: 01784 473527; email: recruitment@rhul.ac.uk 

Please quote reference number KB/0381 for the neuroscience post and KB/0015 for 
the genetics position.

Closing date for the receipt of applications is midday, Thursday 1st February 
2007.

We positively welcome applications from all sections of the community.

