PhD studentships available at Purdue University
Plant biology research is playing an increasingly important role in global policy because 
of its potential to ameliorate climate change, provide bioenergy feedstocks, and increase 
food production in the face of deteriorating land quality, and improve nutrition in 
commodity foods. Countries and states that are major bioenergy and food crop producers 
are increasingly the centre of new developments in plant biology, especially as basic 
research in the Arabidopsis model system is translated into functional studies in 
agriculturally and environmentally important species. In the midwestern United States, 
agriculture is a major economic component and enjoys high levels of support at the state 
and federal level. Faculty expansion in plant biology continues even as other budgets 
have been restricted by recent economic trends. Nowhere is this more the case than at 
Purdue University situated two hours south of Chicago in the heart of Indiana agricultural 
production. At Purdue, plant biology research is prominent, interdisciplinary, and 
exciting. Career opportunities after training in plant biology at Purdue are excellent.  The 
cost of living at Purdue is very low. Two PhD studentships are available in the 
Murphy/Peer lab, Purdue University.
 
Structure/function analysis of  dicot and monocot ABCB transporters
The Murphy lab group studies the regulation of auxin transport and the function of plant 
ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporters. Using molecular modeling and mutational 
analyses, we have developed an experimental plan for elucidating the mechanisms 
underlying auxin transport mediated by the ABCB class of plant auxin transporters. The 
student working in this project will be trained in the use of computational modeling tools, 
analysis of the transport characteristics of mutated plant ABCB transporters after 
heterologous expression in the yeast S. pombe (Yang and Murphy, 2009), and analysis of 
mutated transporter function in Arabidopsis. The workin planta will also include the use 
inducible expression, overexpression, and RNA interference to analyze the function of 
redundant transporters.  The ultimate objective of this work is the development of 
methodologies to manipulate plant form and biomass in both monocot and dicot crops.
 
Elucidation of  APM1 regulation of  the cell cycle and cell division
The Peer lab group studies seedling establishment, meristem maintenance, and the role of 
small molecule regulators in these processes. A single copy gene encoding a member of 
the M1 family of zinc metallopeptidases, Aminopeptidase M1 (APM1) regulates root 
meristem maintenance in Arabidopsis and is required for normal root development  (Peer 
et al, 2009). APM1 loss-of-functions mutants show distinct developmental defects in 
embryogenesis and seedling development, indicating that APM1 function is required at 
two distinct times during development. Defects in mitosis (G2/M) are shown in specific 
cell types at each stage. In animals, M1 aminopeptidases have been shown to play roles 
in meiosis and mitosis. We were able to separate APM1 embryonic and seedling 
functions by using inducible silencing (artificial microRNA) of APM1 in wild type at 
different stages to ‘phenocopy’ the mutant defects and inducible expression of APM1 in 
the mutant to rescue the defects.  Using this inducible system we can manipulate the 
timing of the cell cycle/division events and elucidate the role of APM1 in cell 
cycle/division regulation. The student working in this project will be trained in the use of 
molecular genetic, cell biology and biochemistry techniques.
 
Potential applicants are encouraged to contact Wendy Peer (peer@purdue.edu) or Angus 
Murphy (murphy@purdue.edu) for information regarding application for the positions 
and to the graduate program in the Department of Horticulture at Purdue University. 
Graduate Studies at Purdue are noted for their emphasis on plant biology and for their 
continuing expansion of plant biology faculty. Laboratory and core facilities for plant 
biology research at Purdue are state of the art and are supported by extensive growth 
facilities including contained environment and outdoor growing units. Information on the 
department can be found athttp://www.ag.purdue.edu/HLA/Pages/default.aspx.
 
Purdue University is an Equal Access/Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer.  Women and 
individuals of underrepresented groups are strongly encouraged to apply.
 

