19-months postdoc position, at LIPM, Toulouse, France 
To study the mode of action of the F-box "GALA" type III effector 
proteins of Ralstonia solanacearum on Arabidopsis. 
 
Available from 1st September 2008 (starting no later than 1st January 2009) 
 
Location: 
The LIPM (www.toulouse.inra.fr/centre/lipm), in Toulouse, France, is a 
dynamic and international group of researchers studying plant-microbe 
interactions. It provides an excellent scientific environment and 
facilities to carry out this project. 
 
The Position: 
Together with the project leader, a PhD student and technical assistance, the candidate 
will carry out Arabidopsis molecular genetics, bacterial infection studies, protein 
biochemistry in order to identify and characterize the targets of the GALA proteins 
injected by 
R. solanacearum in plant cells. 
 
Annual Gross salary of 25 611 EUR (expected Net salary around 1800 
EUR/month including health and unemployment benefits). 
Starting the 1^st of February 2008 or soon after. 
 
The candidate: 
Should have experience in plant molecular genetics and preferably also protein 
biochemistry  The candidate is expected to have a strong enthusiasm (not necessary 
previous experience) for plant-pathogenic bacteria interactions. Good English scientific 
communication skills are essential. 
 
Application: 
Please send email inquiry and application, with subject header "postdoc 
GALA", to Nemo Peeters (peeters@toulouse.inra.fr, tel:+33561285592). Application 
should contain a cover letter outlining previous experience, a curriculum vitae and up to 
three reference contact details. 
 
Living in Toulouse: 
Fourth largest city in France, Toulouse is attractive in terms of 
cultural and sport activities. The South of France is renowned for its 
quality of life. 
 
 
References: 
*Kajava, AV., Anisimova, M. and Peeters, N. (2008). Origin and evolution 
of GALA-LRR, a new member of the CC-LRR subfamily: from plants to 
bacteria? PLoS ONE 3(2): e1694. 
 
*Angot, A., Vergunst, A., Genin, S., and Peeters, N. (2007). 
Exploitation of eukaryotic ubiquitin signaling pathways by effectors 
translocated by bacterial type III and type IV secretion systems. PLoS 
Pathog /3/, e3. 
 
*Angot, A., Peeters, N., Lechner, E., Vailleau, F., Baud, C., 
Gentzbittel, L., Sartorel, E., Genschik, P., Boucher, C., and Genin, S. 
(2006). /Ralstonia solanacearum /requires F-box-like domain-containing 
type III effectors to promote disease on several host plants. Proc Natl 
Acad Sci U S A /103/, 14621-14625.
