NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY’S COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND LIFE SCIENCES
Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship Opportunity

GENERAL REQUIRMENTS:  Persons interested in the Dean’s Postdoctoral Fellowship opportunity must hold an earned PhD
and meet the qualifications of their project of interest.  The post doc will be required to teach one class per 
year based on his/her background and interests.  Additionally, the post doc will work on one project with the 
Office of Diversity Affairs.  Therefore, prior experience working with underrepresented minority populations is 
highly desirable.  
POSTDOCTORAL STIPEND: $40,000 to $45,000 per year PLUS benefits and up to $1500 for professional development.
By May 11, 2012, interested persons must contact the project leader of the project in which they are interested.  
Interested persons of Native American and African American descent are encouraged to contact the project leader.
  

 POTENTIAL PROJECT TWO: Investigation of the Genetic Control of Basal Immunity in Maze 
Description: The postdoctoral researcher will investigate the genetic and molecular underpinnings of the basal 
defense response in maize using a variety of techniques, including expression and biochemical analysis, quantitative 
genetics and plant pathology. Using a previously-defined set of assays, the researcher will identify loci that 
control variation in basal defense and will define and characterize a set of genes upregulated during the basal 
defense response. The researcher will also assess the effects of enhanced basal immunity in protecting maize from 
a variety of fungal pathogens.   Other research aimed towards an understanding of maize disease resistance and 
defense response could also be pursued.

Please contact the project leader with any questions.  

Qualifications: The candidate should possess a Ph.D in one of the following areas: Molecular Genetics, Statistical Genetics, 
Genomics or Plant Pathology. 
Research Program Information: http://www4.ncsu.edu/~pjbalint/peter.htm. 
Project Leader: Dr. Peter Balint-Kurti, (919) 515-3516, peter_balintkurti@ncsu.edu
