Title (Req Number):  Research Scientist (10321BR)
Location: Wilmington, DE
Job Description: Research Scientist with strong plant pathology skills and additional expertise in 
plant and fungal molecular biology to support disease resistance research programs in the Plant 
Protection Group of Dupont Agricultural Biotechnology.
Duties/Responsibilities: Duties or responsibilities include managing a group to develop and 
evaluate strategies for soybean disease resistance. Specifically responsible for developing 
disease assays to evaluate transgenic soybean plants for efficacy against target fungal 
pathogens. Must be able to work independently to design, optimize and implement assay 
protocols yet effectively function as part of a multidisciplinary team for high throughput screens of 
transgenic material.
Educational Qualifications Desired: PhD in plant pathology, biology molecular biology or 
scientific field and minimum of 2 to 4 years of related experience or equivalent amounts of 
relevant education and experience preferred. Masters degree in an agriculture or scientific field 
and minimum of 6 to 8 years of industry related experience required. Post doctoral experience 
may serve as experience. 
Competencies and Experience Desired: Successful candidate will have experience in the 
development and optimization of plant disease bioassays. Experience in plant pathology or plant 
disease resistance-related research. A good working knowledge of plant pathology principles and 
an understanding of transgenic approaches for plant disease resistance are required. The ability 
to critically analyze results, apply appropriate statistical methods, and interpret assay findings is 
essential. Experience in transgenic plant research, particularly in the characterization of 
transgenic plant events at the bioassay level and correlation with molecular analytical results is 
highly desirable. Good oral and written communication and interpersonal skills are necessary.
To Apply: www.pioneer.com/careers  EOE  
Submit to job 10321BR

