TENURE-TRACK FACULTY POSITION IN GENOMICS/SYSTEMS BIOLOGY

The Department of Biology at the University of Pennsylvania is seeking to hire a 
colleague employing genomic-scale methods to study fundamental problems in any 
experimental system (animal, fungal, plant, microbial).  Areas of interest 
include, but are not limited to: systems-level studies of functional and/or 
comparative analysis of gene activity or evolution, cellular, developmental or 
physiological processes, and computational analysis of biological signals or 
patterns.

Applicants are expected to have demonstrated excellence and productivity in 
research, and a desire to teach at the undergraduate and graduate levels.  We 
anticipate that this appointment will be made at the Assistant Professor level, 
but outstanding senior candidates will be given serious consideration.  The 
University of Pennsylvania encompasses a vibrant and collegial group of genomics 
researchers; if appropriate, appointment will be made jointly with the Penn 
Genomics Institute and/or suitable departments within the Schools of Arts & 
Sciences, Medicine, or Engineering & Applied Sciences.  Further information 
about this search, and the Department of Biology can be found at 
www.bio.upenn.edu.

Applicants are encouraged to email a cover letter, CV, description of research 
interests and up to three reprints as .pdf files to: 
GenomicsBiologySearch@sas.upenn.edu with Genomics in the subject line..  
Alternatively, these documents may be sent to:  Genomics Search, Department of 
Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia PA 19104-6018. Applicants at 
the Assistant Professor level should also arrange for at least three letters of 
reference to be sent to the email address above (as .pdf files) or to the postal 
address. In addition, a short on-line profile at 
https://fusion.sas.upenn.edu/faculty/pos/bio/genomics must be completed by all 
applicants Review of applications will begin in late October, and continue until 
the position is filled.

The University of Pennsylvania is an equal opportunity, affirmative action 
employer.  Women and minority candidates are strongly encouraged to apply

