*Postdoctoral Positions to Characterize Salicylic Acid Signaling Network in Plants at 
Cornell Univ./BTI* 
 
 
 
The plant hormone salicylic acid (SA) affects many diverse processes in plant growth and 
development and plays important role(s) in response to abiotic and biotic stresses. Its 
role(s) in disease resistance has been the most extensively studied but is still only 
partially understood (e.g. PNAS 2005, 102:1773; Science 2007, 318:113; Curr. Opin. 
Plant Biol. 2008, 11:436). To obtain insights into how SA carries out its varied functions, 
a large number of putative SA-binding proteins (pSABPs) have recently been identified 
in Arabidopsis by affinity chromatography. Investigators will use two powerful high 
throughput screens, an Arabidopsis protein micro-array and a yeast three hybrid system, 
to identify additional SABPs, as well as confirm the SA-binding activity of the already 
identified pSABPs. These SABPs will be characterized using biochemical, genetic, 
molecular, bioinformatic, and biophysical (X-ray crystallography) techniques to decipher 
their functions in growth and development and/or responses to abiotic or biotic stresses 
(particularly disease resistance), and the effects of SA binding on these functions. Based 
on current data and the results obtained, an SA signaling network model(s) will be 
constructed, tested by more detailed characterization of putative signaling or regulatory 
modules, and refined in order to produce an exemplary model of the SA signaling 
network of SABPs which may serve as a paradigm for other plant hormones (and other 
small ligands). This multi-disciplinary project will be supported by a 4-year NSF 2010 
grant. Applicant should have a Ph.D. in biochemistry, molecular biology, chemistry, 
genetics, or related areas and must be strongly motivated and dedicated to doing basic 
research. */Strong background in protein chemistry and enzymology is preferred./* 
*/ /* 
 
Send CV and a cover letter detailing experience and _have_ three letters of 
recommendation sent to: Dan Klessig, Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research at 
Cornell University, Tower Road, Ithaca, NY 14853 or email dfk8@cornell.edu 
<mailto:dfk8@cornell.edu>.                                                                       Related website 
http://bti.cornell.edu/DanKlessig.php 
 
 
Institute Description: BTI is a not-for-profit research institute affiliated with Cornell 
University. Its research emphasis is on fundamentally understanding the basic biology of 
plants, particularly as this relates to signal transduction within a plant and between a plant 
and its environment. BTI is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer.
