Harvard University 
Faculty Position 
Plant Biology 
The Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at 
Harvard University and the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard 
University invite applications for a tenure-track or tenured faculty 
position in plant biology. We seek to appoint an individual whose 
research on plants integrates well with the outstanding living and 
herbarium collections of the Arnold Arboretum and whose 
scholarship will complement the research and teaching missions of 
the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology. The area 
of scholarship is open, and we especially encourage applications 
from those studying genomics, molecular genetics, developmental 
biology, physiology, organismic biology, phylogenetics, evolution, 
ecology, and community biology, whose research addresses 
fundamental questions regarding the origin and maintenance of 
plant biodiversity. Applicants will be expected to develop an 
innovative research program and contribute to teaching at the 
graduate and undergraduate levels in the Department of 
Organismic and Evolutionary Biology. The research laboratory 
will be situated in the newly opened 43,000 square foot state-ofthe- 
art research facility in the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard 
University. 
Applications should include a curriculum vitae, statements of 
research and teaching interests, and representative publications. 
Tenured faculty should submit these materials to the tenured 
faculty position in plant biology listed at 
https://academicpositions.harvard.edu. Tenure-track applicants 
should submit these materials, along with the names and contact 
information of three references, to the tenure-track faculty position 
in plant biology listed at https://academicpositions.harvard.edu. 
Letters of nomination from third parties are also welcome. First review 
of applications will begin on December 15, 2011. 
Further information about OEB is available at 
http://www.oeb.harvard.edu; information about plant biology at 
Harvard can be found at http://www.pbi.fas.harvard.edu; 
information about the Arnold Arboretum can be found at 
http://arboretum.harvard.edu/. Please contact us via e-mail with 
any questions at aapltbio@fas.harvard.edu<mailto:aapltbio@fas.harvard.edu>. 
Harvard University Is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. Applications 
from or information about female and minority candidates are encouraged. 