Postdoctoral position in New Zealand on the model legume Medicago truncatula

Postdoctoral position available in flowering-time control in the model 
legume Medicago truncatula. University of Auckland, New Zealand. 
Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral position supported by the 
Marsden Fund to study the control of flowering time in the model legume 
Medicago truncatula in the laboratory of Joanna Putterill at Auckland 
University, New Zealand. We have a strong interest in flowering time control 
and our past research has concentrated on genes that control Arabidopsis 
flowering. Here, we wish to investigate the modulation of flowering by 
winter cold (vernalisation) in Medicago, as vernalisation is not well 
understood at the molecular level in any eudicot apart from Arabidopsis. We 
have recently established Medicago in our lab and will use available 
mutants, molecular genetics and genomics tools to characterise genes that 
control flowering in Medicago. The applications of such research are to 
provide tools to breed or design plants with customized flowering time, and 
we have collaborative links to groups working to control flowering in crops. 
Highly motivated candidates with a PhD in plant molecular biology, plant 
genetics or molecular biology and a strong interest in plant functional 
genomics are encouraged to apply. Previous demonstrated expertise with plant 
molecular biology techniques, gene expression analysis, statistical analysis 
of expression datasets, handling large-scale sequencing data sets and plant 
phenotyping is a plus. The candidate should be able to work independently 
and also as a team player. Preference will be given to candidates with 
evidence of publications. The position is for 2.5 years and is available 
immediately. 

For further information, please contact Associate Professor Joanna Putterill 
(j.putterill@auckland.ac.nz) and see 
http://www.bioscienceresearch.co.nz/staff/jo-putterill/, For further 
information about Plant Molecular Science Research in Auckland and what 
makes Auckland a nice place to live see 
http://www.molecular-plants.auckland.ac.nz/. 

To apply, please send your full C.V. and a brief statement of previous 
research experience and motivation for this position, as well as the contact 
information (including email addresses and phone numbers) of two - three 
referees to Associate Professor Joanna Putterill (by email is preferred: 
j.putterill@auckland.ac.nz
