Faculty Position in Cryobiofrontier Research Center, Faculty of Agriculture, Iwate University, 
Japan 
 
 
The Cryobiofrontier Research Center (CRC) at Iwate University, Morioka, Japan invites 
applications for Professor Position in the field of cold adaptation biology. CRC is an affiliated 
research center of Faculty of Agriculture, Iwate University and founded on 2008. The center is 
currently hosting seven faculty members, whose research are mainly focused to explore "various 
unique biological phenomena occurring under cold environment." 
 
 
 
Title of position: Professor 
 
 
 
 
 
Starting date: October 1, 2009 (negotiable). 
 
 
 
 
 
Requirements: 
 
The candidate should have a Ph. D. and postdoctoral experience in biological science with a 
proven track record in research, teaching (bachelor, master, and doctoral courses) and 
management. The position also requires English fluency. The successful applicant is expected to 
1) develop an extramurally funded, internationally recognized research program on 
molecular/physiological/biochemical /cellular or eco-physiological mechanisms of adaptation and 
responses to cold environment. Possible research areas include, but are not limited to, 
temperature sensing, signal transduction, regulation mechanism of gene expression, genetics of 
cold response and application in breeding. Other original themes and approaches, which may 
enhance the CRC's research strength and target, would also be welcomed. 2) The appointee is 
expected to teach a biology-related laboratory course and/or a biology-related lecture class at 
both undergraduate and graduate levels and 3) mentor both undergraduate and graduate 
students. 
 
 
 
 
 
Application instructions: 
 
The closing date for application is by May 31, 2009. 
 
The application must include: 
 
1.    Curriculum vitae (including applicant's e-mail address). 
 
2.    List of publications, research grants awarded and patents obtained by the applicant. 
 
3.    Reprints (or photocopies) of five key papers if available. 
 
4.    Names and contact information including e-mail addresses of three references. 
 
5.    Statement for previous research accomplishment and future research (approximately 1,500 
words each). 
 
6.    A brief and concise teaching statement. 
 
7.    A cover letter explaining applicant's competence for this position. 
 
 
 
Salary: 
 
Annual salary will be commensurate with individual's experience and in accordance with the 
provisions of Iwate University. Compensation package (health/dental insurances and others) 
based on the university regulations will be available. 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional information: 
 
1.    To be reviewed for this position, the applicant must have at least 20 refereed publications 
(original papers, reviews, and books). 
 
2.    Detail information on research field/interest of each faculty member of CRC as well as 
additional information on CRC and/or Iwate University is available upon request. Any queries 
should be directed to the search committee chair, Dr. Kikukatsu Ito. 
 
3.    Decision of the Selection Committee will be notified to all applicants immediately after the 
first screening. Application documents are non-returnable. 
 
4.    Only the short listed candidates will be invited for interview. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please send application or inquiry to: 
 
Kikukatsu Ito, Ph.D. 
 
Chair, Selection Committee 
 
Cryobiofrontier Research Center, Faculty of Agriculture, Iwate University 
 
Morioka, Iwate 020-8550, Japan 
 
Phone and Fax, +81-19-621-6143; E-mail, kikuito@iwate-u.ac.jp
