Faculty Position at Iwate University, Japan 

Cryobiofrontier Research Center (CRC), Faculty of Agriculture, Iwate 
University, invites application for one non-tenure track assistant professor 
position in the Division of Systems Thermobiology. This position is only 
open for non-Japanese women researchers. 

Iwate University is located at Morioka City, Iwate Prefecture, approximately 
500 km north of Tokyo. Iwate University was established in 1949 and now has 
both undergraduate and graduate schools with approximately 800 staff members 
and 6,300 students. CRC was founded in 2008 as a research center affiliated 
with the Faculty of Agriculture of Iwate University. CRC is one of the 
leading research centers in Japan in the field of cryobiological sciences. 
The center consists of four research divisions, currently accommodating 
seven faculty members. The primary research focus of Division of Systems 
Thermobiology includes the structure and function of the mitochondrial 
alternative oxidases and respiration control in thermogenic plants. 

Required Qualifications: Applicants must be a foreign national holding a 
Ph.D. in Biology and have demonstrated ability to conduct advanced and 
collaborative research in the field of bioenergetics, including cellular 
respiration, using a combinatorial approach of biochemistry, molecular 
biology and plant physiology. Relevant postdoctoral experience will be 
beneficial. 

Salary: Annual salary will be commensurate with experience and ability in 
accordance with the provisions of Iwate University. 

Employment Duration: 
Date of employment: May1, 2012 (or the earliest possible date thereafter) 
Duration: Initial contract will be for three years, up to March 2015, with 
an annual renewal policy. The contract may be extended for additional 
two-year term (up to March 2017) depending on the appointee's performance. 

Required Documentation (provide all in English): 
1. Curriculum vitae (with e-mail address). 
2. List of publications, research grants awarded, and patents obtained by 
the applicant (including those in progress). 
3. Reprints (or photocopies) of three key papers. 
4. Name, affiliated organization, contact phone/fax number, e-mail address, 
and mailing address of two references. 
5. A statement of research achievements and future research plan. 
6. A cover letter describing candidate's competence for the position. 

Additional information: 
1. The successful candidate is expected to supervise undergraduate/graduate 
student's research at the CRC. 
2. The appointee may be requested to teach biology-related courses at 
undergraduate and/or graduate levels in English. 
4. Decision by the selection committee will be notified to all applicants at 
the earliest convenience. Application materials are non-returnable. 
5. Only short listed candidates will be contacted for interview. 
6. Informal inquiries about CRC/Iwate University or current opening should 
be directed to Prof. Ken-ichi Tsutsumi, chair, selection committee. 
7. Iwate University is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. 

Application Deadline: 
Completed applications must arrive at Iwate University by March 31, 2012. 

Addresses for submitting the application: 
Prof. Ken-ichi TSUTSUMI 
Chair, Selection Committee 
Cryobiofrontier Research Center 
Faculty of Agriculture, Iwate University 
Morioka, Iwate 020-8550, Japan 
Tel/Fax: +81-19-621-6242 
Email: kentsu@iwate-u.ac.jp 

This job opening is limited to women as a 'measure in connection with women 
workers with the purpose of improving circumstances that impede the securing 
of equal opportunity and treatment between men and women in employment' 
based on the article 8 of the Act on Securing, Ect. of Equal Opportunity and 
Treatment between Men and Women in Employment (Act No. 113 of 1972.) 