Faculty Position - Syracuse University 

The Department of Biology at Syracuse University (SU) invites applications 
for a tenure-track Assistant/Associate Professor position to support 
ongoing interests in epigenetics, chromatin, and small RNA biology at SU. 
We seek applicants who utilize biochemical, genetic, and/or genomic 
approaches to address chromatin- and/or small RNA-based mechanisms of 
epigenetic regulation within a developmental context such as, but not 
limited to, stem cell biology, cell-signaling, or cellular differentiation. 

The successful candidate will occupy space in the Life Sciences Complex, a 
new research facility designed to support collaborative research. This 
position is part of the epigenetics research focus at SU. The successful 
candidate is expected to develop an independent, extramurally funded 
research program and will be expected to interact effectively with 
colleagues in Biology as well as with colleagues from other departments at 
SU, SUNY-Upstate Medical University, and SUNY-College of Environmental 
Science and Forestry. The successful candidate will also be expected to 
teach undergraduate and graduate courses and develop new courses as 
appropriate to his/her expertise and the needs of the Department of Biology. 

Competitive salary, start-up funds, and laboratory space will be provided. 
Candidates must have a PhD in any area of biology relevant to this search 
and productive postdoctoral research experience. 

For full consideration applicants must complete an online application at 
www.sujobopps.com&lt;http://www.sujobopps.com> , (#028464) and attach the 
following documents. Please send documents as follows: FILE 1 - a cover 
letter outlining the candidate's qualifications, a 2-3 page statement of 
research experience, interests and philosophy, a curriculum vitae, and 
contact information for three professional references to provide letters of 
recommendation. FILE 2 - recent publication #1. FILE 3 - recent 
publication #2. 

Review of applications will begin December 5, 2011. For questions, please 
e-mail Eleanor Maine, Chair of the Search Committee, emmaine@syr.edu<mailto: 
emmaine@syr.edu> 

Syracuse University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer; 
qualified women and minority candidates are especially encouraged to apply. 
