The following advertisement appeared in Science on January 22.

Tenure-Track Position-Plant Molecular Biologist Department of Biology,
Syracuse University

The Department of Biology invites applications for a tenure-track
Assistant Professor position to be filled by fall 2010 in plant cell
molecular biology, with emphasis on biofuels. The areas of research
include but are not limited to energy storage in plants, cell walls,
metabolic pathways, biomass, biotic and abiotic stress resistance
etc.   The applicant's interests should augment existing Biology
Department strengths (see department website
(http://biology.syr.edu/).  Candidates are expected to develop an
independent, sustainable research program and contribute to
departmental teaching at the undergraduate and graduate
levels. Competitive salary, start-up funds and new laboratory space
will be provided.


The individual filling this position will be part of an
interdisciplinary initiative in biofuels currently underway at
Syracuse University.  There will be a concurrent faculty hire in the
area of biofuels by the Department of Biomedical and Chemical
Engineering.  Thus, this position offers an outstanding opportunity
for collaboration with colleagues in Biology, Biomedical and Chemical
Engineering, Chemistry, Physics, as well those at the State University
of New York-Environmental Science & Forestry
(http://www.esf.edu/). These two institutions (Syracuse University and
SUNY-ESF) form one nearly contiguous campus. The Syracuse University
Biology Department recently moved to the new 110,000 net sq ft Life
Sciences Complex (LSC), which we share with the Department of
Chemistry. The LSC features generous, well-appointed research
laboratories designed to promote interaction, and the option to
customize a component of research space. In addition, LSC has a brand
new 5000 sq ft state-of-the-art greenhouse on the roof.

To apply, candidates should visit www.sujobopps.com  to complete a
Dean/Senior Executive/ Faculty application form and attach a current
curriculum vitae plus (1) a cover letter outlining the candidate's
qualifications, (2) a brief statement of research interests and future
goals, and (3) a summary of teaching experience and teaching interests
as a single PDF file.  We ask that interested candidates have at least
three letters of reference sent directly either to the electronic
address above or to the mailing address below.  Please include the
name, address, phone number and e-mail address of each of your
references in your cover letter.  Personal inquiries may be directed
to:

Plant Molecular Biologist Faculty Search
Ramesh Raina, Ph.D.
Department of Biology
107 College Place
 Syracuse University
Syracuse, NY 13244
E-mail: raraina@syr.edu

Syracuse University is an affirmative action/equal opportunity
employer with a strong commitment to equality of opportunity and a
diverse workforce.
