Assistant Professor in Functional Genomics 

The Department of Biological Sciences at Auburn University invites 
applications for a tenure-track faculty appointment (9-month) at the 
Assistant Professor level with specialization in the area of Functional 
Genomics, beginning Fall 2012. Candidates are expected to possess expertise 
in the study of genome-to-phenotype pathways conferring functionality and 
adaptation in any eukaryotic system. Candidates whose research interests 
expand or enhance existing areas of strength within the department will be 
given preference. Candidates are expected to establish an extramurally 
funded, internationally recognized research program and to actively engage 
in training of graduate and undergraduate students. Instructional 
responsibilities will include regular participation in the department's 
undergraduate General Genetics offering and graduate and/or upper-division 
courses in the area of specialization, as well as advising graduate and 
undergraduate students in the major. 

Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Biological Sciences or a closely related 
discipline, and at least 2 years of relevant postdoctoral experience. 
 Excellent communication / interpersonal skills are required. Desired 
qualifications include a strong record of publication, teaching experience, 
potential for extramural funding, and bioinformatics experience. The 
candidate selected for this position must be able to meet eligibility 
requirements to work in the United States at the time the appointment is 
scheduled to begin, continue working legally for the proposed term of 
employment, and be able to communicate effectively in English. Women and 
Minorities are strongly encouraged to apply. 

Review of applications will begin 1 Jan 2012 and will continue until a 
suitable applicant is found. Applicants should submit (electronically) a 
cover letter emphasizing specific qualifications, a curriculum vitae, a 
description of research interests, a statement of teaching philosophy / 
experience along with the names and contact information of at least 3 
references to genomeap@auburn.edu (Dr. Michael Wooten, Functional Genomics 
Search Committee, Department of Biological Sciences, 331 Funchess Hall, 
Auburn University, AL 36849-5414 - Email: wootemc@auburn.edu ). More 
information about the department and its programs can be found at: 
www.auburn.edu/biology. 
AUBURN UNIVERSITY IS AN AFFIRMATIVE ACTION/EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER. 