POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE, MOLECULAR MECHANISMS THAT REGULATE 
FEMALE GAMETOPHYTE FUNCTION IN ARABIDOPSIS 

SCHOOL OF PLANT SCIENCES, UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA 

A postdoctoral research position is available in the School of Plant 
Sciences at the University of Arizona to participate in a research 
project that focuses on understanding pollen tube reception in the 
Arabidopsis female gametophyte. Seeds of flowering plants are products 
of double fertilization. This essential, yet poorly understood, 
process in plant reproduction requires delivery of sperm cells by the 
pollen tube to the egg and central cells of the female gametophyte. 
However, the pollen tube must arrest its growth in one of the two 
synergid cells of the female gametophyte before it can be induced to 
deliver the sperm cells. 

Previously, we identified LORELEI, a putative 
glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored membrane protein in 
Arabidopsis, and demonstrated that it has a role in inducing the 
pollen tube to cease growth in the synergid cell of the female 
gametophyte. We also showed that loss of LORELEI in the synergid cell 
specifically disrupts cell-cell interactions between the pollen tube 
and the synergid cell and is, therefore, an excellent candidate for 
mediating some aspects of signaling between the pollen tube and the 
female gametophyte (Tsukamoto et al 2010, Plant Journal, 62 (4): 
571-588). The post doctoral candidate will conduct molecular, genetic, 
biochemical, and cell biological experiments to elucidate the role of 
LORELEI in inducing pollen tube growth arrest in the Arabidopsis 
female gametophyte. 

Preference will be given to a highly motivated, enthusiastic, and 
independent candidate with a Ph.D. and proven experience in molecular 
genetics, cell biology, and biochemistry. Demonstrated written and 
oral communication skills and the ability to interact and work 
collaboratively with others are essential qualifications. The 
position is available April 1, 2012. Additional information about the 
Palanivelu lab, School of Plant Sciences, University of Arizona, and 
the city of Tucson can be found at 
http://ag.arizona.edu/research/ravilab/index.html 

To apply, applicants should send a CV, a letter stating specific 
research interests, a summary of research accomplishments and future 
research objectives, and the names and contact information (address, 
phone, and e-mail) for three references to Dr. Ravi Palanivelu 
(rpalaniv@ag.arizona.edu) School of Plant Sciences, University of 
Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721-0036. The University of Arizona is an 
EEO/AA Employer-M/W/D.V. 