Five new academic staff appointments at UEA and a Project Leader at
the John Innes Centre have been created as a result of substantial new
investments in the Earth and Life Systems Alliance (ELSA) and the
Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research. The posts offer excellent
opportunities for continuing, or developing, internationally
outstanding research careers.

The Tyndall Centre for Climatic Change Research
Three Lecturer Posts Ref: 37,651 43,622 per annum)

UEA is the Headquarters of the Tyndall Centre (www.tyndall.ac.uk),
which includes the universities of Manchester, Southampton, Oxford,
Newcastle, Sussex and Cambridge. At UEA, the Tyndall Centre's
interdisciplinary activities span the Faculty of Science and the
Faculty of Social Sciences. These new positions will be based
alongside existing Tyndall colleagues within the School of
Environmental Sciences.

You must have a PhD (or equivalent) in an appropriate discipline in
physical, natural, or social science, ideally with research interests
in one or more of: land use and climate change; food security and
climate change; mitigation, adaptation and behavioural change; energy
and climate security; climate change and prosperity, and you must also
be able to satisfy all other essential elements of the person
specification. Applications from candidates with research interests in
other climate-related areas will also be considered.

The Earth and Life Systems Alliance (ELSA)
Two UEA Lecturer or Reader posts Ref: 37,651 43,622 per annum for
44,930 52,086 for reader)

John Innes Centre Project Leader (Tenure-track) Ref: 33,37,534. A
higher pay 42,769 47,521) may be offered to an exceptional candidate).

ELSA (www.elsa.ac.uk<http://www.elsa.ac.uk>) is a major strategic
collaboration between UEA and the John Innes Centre (JIC). It brings
together UEA's expertise in environmental science and climate change,
with JIC's expertise in plant and microbial biology to understand,
predict and mitigate the impact of environmental change on
biodiversity, biogeochemical cycles and agricultural systems. We seek
applicants with outstanding research and publication records in this
area. The successful candidates will either have or be expected to
establish an internationally high-profile independent research
programme that includes substantial collaboration between JIC and UEA.

For all ELSA posts, you must have a PhD (or equivalent); a research
background in ecology, molecular or evolutionary biology,
biogeochemistry, microbiology, plant biology, social science or
environmental modelling and be able to satisfy all other elements of
the person specification. Successful candidates will have a developing
international research reputation, which will already be established
for appointment to the higher level.

Closing date: 12 noon on 30 November 2009.
http://www.uea.ac.uk/hr/jobs/acad/atr841.htm

Professor Alastair Grant
Deputy Head of School
School of Environmental Sciences
University of East Anglia, Norwich, NR4 7TJ, UK
Phone +44 1603 592537
