

Graduate Research Assistantships - Application Deadline January 15th  2007

    The Program in Molecular Plant Biology (PMPB) at Colorado State University is 
offering Graduate Research Assistantships to highly motivated Ph. D. applicants interested 
in Molecular Plant Biology.   The PMPB is an interdepartmental program with over twenty 
faculty members from four departments in two different colleges (College of Agricultural 
Science and College of Natural Sciences). Researchers in the PMPB investigate fundamental 
and applied questions in plant biology using molecular approaches.  Together, they have the 
expertise and a strong reputation in all areas of molecular plant biology. The participating 
faculty members are highly interactive and have research programs funded by various federal, 
state and international agencies. The questions asked cover the entire field of experimental 
plant biology including developmental biology, plant pathology, stress physiology, rhizosphere 
biology, phytoremediation, photosynthesis, transport and evolution. In addition to fundamental 
research, several research groups are engaged in research that may lead to the development of 
plants with useful new traits in crop plants. The PMPB offers research and training 
opportunities in all areas of molecular plant biology including genetics, cell biology, 
biochemistry, molecular sytematics, synthetic biology, and molecular and whole plant 
physiology.  Genomic, proteomic and metabolomic approaches are integrated in these research 
programs.  Colorado State University is located at the foot of the beautiful Rocky Mountains, 
in the town of Fort Collins, which enjoys one of the best climates in the USA and is a 
perennial in the top 10 best places to live.  In a recent Money Magazine "Best Place to Live" 
survey Fort Collins was awarded the No. 1 rank.  Geographically and scientifically 
PMPB is in the perfect environment for exciting research in plant biology.

    All students in the program are required to rotate through three laboratories prior to 
choosing a home lab. At the end of the first year, students select their advisors from 
any of four departments in two colleges. During the first year, students in the program 
are offered a research assistantship and tuition. To provide teaching experience, a number 
of teaching assistantships are offered through different departments.  Students in the 
PMPB will benefit from the highly active and interactive group of plant faculty and the 
state-of-the art facilities to conduct cutting-edge science in molecular plant biology.  
To apply to this program please visit our web site http://www.plantbiology.colostate.edu/Admissions/.  
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS JANUARY 15TH, 2007.  Top applicants will be invited to visit CSU during 
our recruitment week in February 2007.
-- 
A.S.N. Reddy
Professor
Department of Biology
Colorado State University
Fort Collins, CO 80523

Ph. No. 970-491-5773
Fax. No. 970-491-0649
http://lamar.colostate.edu/~reddy/index.html
http://www.plantbiology.colostate.edu

