ALGAL BIOLOGIST 
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR, TENURE-TRACK 
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY 
COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY 

POSITION: The Biology Department is recruiting a Eukaryotic Algal 
Biologist at the rank of Assistant Professor, as part of an expansion 
of bioenergy research and teaching at CSU. We seek a broadly trained 
individual who uses genetic, molecular, biochemical and cell 
biological approaches to study algal biological processes that are 
relevant to biofuel development. Example areas of emphasis include 
energy transduction pathways (photosynthesis and respiration), carbon 
metabolism (including but not limited to oil production), growth or 
biomass. The successful candidate will use innovative tools and 
approaches in, for example, genomics, proteomics, metabolomics, 
systems biology and/or synthetic biology to address biofuel-related 
fundamental research questions in algal biology. The incumbent is 
expected to interact closely with several successful bioenergy 
programs in education, research, and technology transfer at CSU 
(http://bioenergy.colostate.edu/) including an NSF IGERT Ph.D. 
program, the Sustainable Bioenergy Research Center, the Clean Energy 
Supercluster, and the industry-sponsored Colorado Center for Biofuels 
and Biorefining. In addition, this individual will have 
opportunities to interact with faculty in other campus-wide 
interdisciplinary programs such as the Program in Molecular Plant 
Biology (http://plant.biology.colostate.edu/), and the Graduate 
Degree Program in Cell and Molecular Biology 
(http://www.colostate.edu/Depts/CMB/). For more information about CSU 
in general and the Biology Department in particular, please visit the 
Biology Department website: http://www.colostate.edu/Depts/Biology/. 

RESPONSIBILITIES: The successful candidate will develop an active 
extramurally funded and innovative research program. This 
tenure-track position involves undergraduate and graduate teaching 
(approximately 45 percent), research involving undergraduates and 
graduate students (approximately 45 percent), and service/outreach 
(approximately 10 percent). Teaching may include courses in 
phycology, plant biochemistry and plant metabolism. 

QUALIFICATIONS: Ph.D. in algal biology, plant biology or a related 
field. Research expertise in algal biology with publications in 
peer-reviewed journals is required. Postdoctoral research experience 
is preferred. 

SALARY: Commensurate with education and experience at the rank of 
Assistant Professor. 

POSITION AVAILABLE: August 15, 2011 

To receive full consideration, apply on-line at 
(http://www.natsci.colostate.edu/employment/biology/) by November 29, 
2010. Include a cover letter, C.V., statements of research & teaching 
interests, and up to three representative publications. Applicants 
should arrange for on-line submission of three reference letters at 
(http://www.natsci.colostate.edu/employment/biology/) by the target 
date. The position will remain open until filled. All application 
materials of semi-finalists will be made available to all faculty in 
the Department of Biology. 
