Graduate Fellowships in Molecular Plant Biology

    The Program in Molecular Plant Biology (PMPB) at Colorado State University is offering 
graduate fellowships to highly motivated Ph. D. applicants interested in Molecular Plant Biology.   
The PMPB is an interdepartmental program with over twenty faculty members from four departments 
in two different colleges (College of Agricultural Science and College of Natural Sciences).  
Researchers in the PMPB investigate fundamental and applied questions in plant biology using 
molecular approaches.  Together, they have the expertise and a strong reputation in all areas 
of molecular plant biology. The participating faculty members are highly interactive and have 
research programs funded by various federal, state and international agencies. The questions 
asked cover the entire field of experimental plant biology including developmental biology, 
plant pathology, stress physiology, rhizosphere biology, phytoremediation, photosynthesis, 
transport and evolution. In addition to fundamental research, several research groups are 
engaged in research that may lead to the development of plants with useful new traits in 
crop plants. The PMPB offers research and training opportunities in all areas of molecular 
plant biology including genetics, cell biology, biochemistry, molecular sytematics, 
synthetic biology, and molecular and whole plant physiology.  Genomic, proteomic and 
metabolomic approaches are integrated in these research programs.  Colorado State University 
is located at the foot of the beautiful Rocky Mountains, in the town of Fort Collins, which 
enjoys one of the best climates in the USA and is a perennial in the top 10 best places to 
live.  Geographically and scientifically PMPB is in the perfect environment for exciting 
research in plant biology.

    All students in the program are required to rotate through three laboratories prior to 
choosing a home lab. At the end of the first year, students select their advisors from 
any of four departments in two colleges. During the first year, students in the program 
are offered a research assistantship, tuition and other benefits. To provide teaching 
experience, a number of teaching assistantships are offered through different departments.  
Students in the PMPB will benefit from the highly active and interactive group of plant 
faculty and the state-of-the art facilities to conduct cutting-edge science in molecular 
plant biology.  To learn more about the PMPB program at Colorado State University or 
apply to this program please visit our web site http://www.plantbiology.colostate.edu/Admissions/

-- 
A.S.N. Reddy
Professor
Department of Biology
Colorado State University
Fort Collins, CO 80523

Ph. No. 970-491-5773
Fax. No. 970-491-0649
http://www.plantbiology.colostate.edu