Graduate Research Assistantships - Application deadline January 15th, 2009 
       The Program in Molecular Plant Biology (PMPB), a Program of Research and 
Scholarly Excellence (PRSE) at Colorado State University, is offering Graduate Research 
Assistantships to highly motivated Ph. D. applicants interested in Molecular Plant 
Biology. The PMPB is an interdepartmental program with about 30 faculty members 
from four departments in two different colleges (College of Agricultural Science and 
College of Natural Sciences).  Researchers in the PMPB investigate fundamental and 
applied questions in plant biology using molecular approaches.  Together, they have the 
expertise and a strong reputation in all areas of molecular plant biology. The participating 
faculty members are highly interactive and have research programs funded by various 
federal, state and international agencies. The questions asked cover the entire field of 
experimental plant biology including biochemistry, biofuels, biotechnology, breeding, 
cell signaling, cell biology, clean energy, developmental biology, evolution, genetics, 
host-microbe interactions, infectious diseases, pathology, photosynthesis, physiology, 
phytoremediation, rhizosphere biology, systematics, synthetic biology and stress 
physiology.  In addition to fundamental research, several research groups are engaged in 
research that may lead to the development of plants with useful new traits in crop plants. 
Genomic, proteomic and metabolomic approaches are integrated in these research 
programs.  Colorado State University is located at the foot of the beautiful Rocky 
Mountains, in the town of Fort Collins, which enjoys one of the best climates in the USA 
and is a perennial in the top 10 best places to live. Geographically and scientifically 
PMPB is in the perfect environment for exciting research in plant biology. 
 
       All students in the program are required to rotate through three laboratories prior to 
choosing a home lab. At the end of the first year, students select their advisors from any 
of four departments in two colleges. During the first year, students in the program are 
offered a research assistantship and tuition. To provide teaching experience, a number of 
teaching assistantships are offered through different departments.  Students in the PMPB 
will benefit from the highly active and interactive group of plant faculty and the state-of-
the art facilities to conduct cutting-edge science in molecular plant biology.  For 
additional information about this program visit http://www.plantbiology.colostate.edu/.   
To apply please visit our web site http://www.plantbiology.colostate.edu/Admissions/. 
 APPLICATION DEADLINE IS JANUARY 15TH, 2009.  Top applicants will be invited 
to visit CSU during our recruitment week in February 2009.
