Postdoctoral Positions 
Department of Biology and Program in Molecular Plant Biology 
Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523 

Postdoctoral research positions are available in the Department of 
Biology and Program in Molecular Plant Biology to study the functions 
of splicing regulators and calcium/calmodulin-regulated transcription 
factors in plant development and stress responses. A Ph.D. in plant 
molecular biology, genetics or a related field is required. 
Applicants must have experience in one or more of the following 
areas: Genetics, biochemistry, molecular biology, cell biology, 
metabolomics, and/or systems biology. Experience with functional 
genomics approaches that involve global analysis of targets of DNA- 
and RNA-binding proteins, high-throughput transcriptomics using 
next-generation sequencing technologies, purification and proteomic 
analysis of protein complexes and/or in vivo imaging of 
protein-protein interactions is desirable. The successful candidates 
will i) develop and apply new and existing tools to identify and 
characterize DNA and RNA targets of transcription factors and 
splicing regulators, respectively, ii) isolate protein complexes 
involved in transcription and splicing, and identify components of 
these complexes using proteomic approaches, and iii) perform 
phenotypic analyses of various loss-of-function mutants of 
transcription factors and splicing regulators. The incumbent will 
have an opportunity to participate in other ongoing projects in the 
laboratory and is expected to interact with other post-docs, graduate 
and undergraduate students in our laboratory and Dr. Asa Ben-Hur's 
group in the Department of Computer Science. For more information on 
our ongoing research projects and recent publications please visit 
http://www.biology.colostate.edu/faculty/reddy. Salary commensurate 
with qualifications and research experience. Interested individuals 
should submit a CV, a statement of research experience and interests, 
and 3 letters of recommendation to the Biology Department Office at 
bio-jobs@colostate.edu. Please e-mail a copy of your application to 
reddy@colostate.edu. 

Colorado State University has the state of the art research 
facilities and excellent support services. CSU is located at the 
foot of the beautiful Rocky Mountains in the town of Fort Collins, 
which enjoys one of the best climates in the USA and is a perennial 
in the top 10 best places to live. Fort Collins has easy access to 
some of the best hiking, skiing, kayaking, and fishing places in 
North America. 

Colorado State University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. 
