Postdoctoral Researcher (Molecular Biology/Post-genome Technologies)

Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral Researcher to work on the 
identification, cloning and heterologous expression of the genes encoding the 
enzymes catalysing the four steps of the important pathway of plant sterol 
dealkylation to cholesterol in insects. The project will involve a range of 
post-genomic technologies, including bioinformatics and proteomics.

Most species of invertebrate animals cannot synthesise sterols (e.g. 
cholesterol) and rely on a dietary source. Plant pest insects and plant 
parasitic nematodes obtain their sterols (e.g. sitosterol) from the plants. 
Without chemical modification, these plant sterols cannot satisfy the sterol 
requirement for normal growth of the invertebrates, which have a specific need 
for a cholesterol-like sterol. Thus, such organisms must dealkylate plant 
sterols (e.g. sitosterol, C29) to yield cholesterol (C27). Most studies of the 
dealkylation pathway have been undertaken in plant-pest insects, as well as in 
the model nematode species, Caernorhabditis elegans. The conversion 
(dealkylation) of sitosterol to cholesterol occurs via a four-step pathway, 
which has been demonstrated in the microsomal membranes in insect midgut. The 
current project aims to clone and characterise the genes encoding the four 
enzymes catalysing the dealkylation reactions from the silkworm, Bombyx mori and 
to model the proteins.

You will join a particularly active multi-disciplinary laboratory within a 
modern, well equipped building, that incorporates Core Facilities in post-
genomic technologies, including Non-Invasive Cell Imaging, Functional 
Proteomics, Transcriptomics, Transgenic Plants and Structural Biology 
(biological NMR).

You should have (or be about to obtain) a Ph.D. in an appropriate biological 
science and experience of molecular biology is essential. The post is funded by 
The Leverhulme Trust for up to two years.

Informal enquiries prior to application may be made to Prof H H Rees 
(reeshh@liv.ac.uk).

For full details of the post, or to request an application pack, visit
www.liv.ac.uk/university/jobs.html or e-mail jobs@liv.ac.uk ; Tel 0151 794 2210 
(24 hr answerphone). Please quote Ref: B/991 in all enquiries




