Postdoctoral Research Associate position in Plant Molecular and Cell Biology

The University of Stavanger invites applications for a 1.5 year Postdoctoral Research Associate 
position in Plant Molecular and Cell Biology at The Centre for Organelle Research, Faculty of 
Science and Technology, beginning January, 2009. 

Project: Targeting Studies and Functional Analyses of Novel Plant Peroxisomal Proteins
To predict proteins targeted to plant peroxisomes with high accuracy, we have deduced 
mathematical prediction models. Site-directed mutagenesis in combination with in vivo 
subcellular targeting studies of EYFP fusion proteins will be applied to test the models and 
increase the accuracy of targeting prediction. The physiological function of novel peroxisomal 
proteins of key metabolic or regulatory functions identified by either protein prediction or 
proteomics will be studied by heterologous gene overexpression, yeast complementation studies, 
and phenotypic characterization of Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines.

The Reumann laboratory belongs to the Centre for Organelle Research (CORE), which houses 
state-of-the-art equipment. The new laboratory represents a highly active and stimulating 
environment and encourages cross-disciplinary and collaborative research. The project is 
technically and intellectually demanding and requires therefore postdoctoral researchers with 
experience in diverse aspects of plant physiology, molecular and cell biology, and preferably 
bioinformatics tools.

Key references:
Changle Ma and Sigrun Reumann (2008) Improved prediction of peroxisomal PTS1 proteins 
from genome sequences based on experimental subcellular targeting analyses as exemplified for 
protein kinases from Arabidopsis. J. Exp. Bot. 59, 3767-3779.
Sigrun Reumann et al. (2007) Proteome analysis of Arabidopsis leaf peroxisomes reveals novel 
targeting peptides, metabolic pathways, and defense mechanisms. Plant Cell 19, 3170-3193. 
Travis Orth et al. (2007) The PEROXIN11 protein family controls peroxisome proliferation in 
Arabidopsis. Plant Cell 19, 333-350
Changle Ma, Martin Haslbeck, Lavanya Babujee, Olaf Jahn, Sigrun Reumann (2006) 
Identification and characterization of a stress-inducible and a constitutive small heat-shock 
protein targeted to the matrix of plant peroxisomes. Plant Physiol. 141, 47-60. 
Sigrun Reumann (2004) Specification of the peroxisome targeting signals type 1 and type 2 of 
plant peroxisomes by bioinformatics analyses. Plant Physiol. 135, 783-800
Sigrun Reumann, Changle Ma, Stefan Lemke, and Lavanya Babujee (2004). AraPerox. A 
database of putative Arabidopsis proteins from plant peroxisomes. Plant Physiol. 136, 2587-
2608

The applications will be assessed in relation to research experience and track record. In addition, 
potential candidates will be invited to an interview. 

It is assumed that the appointee will work full time on the project and that s/he will participate in 
the scholarly circles at the faculty and the university.

The position is salaried according to the State Salary Code, l.pl 17.510, code 1352, ltr 54 - 58, of 
NOK 413.300 - 443.700 per annum. In special cases higher salaries may apply.

The position provides for automatic membership in the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund, 
which guarantees favorable retirement benefits. Members may also apply for home investment 
loans at favorable interest rates.

Further information about the position can be obtained from Professor Sigrun Reumann, e-mail 
sigrun.reumann@uis.no.
 
The application must contain the following documents and material in three copies: 

*	Cover letter including previous research experience
*	CV
*	the form Utvidet søkerskjema (Information to be made available to the applicants)
*	certificates/diplomas
*	references
*	list of publications
*	up to 15 publications and other documentation that the applicant considers relevant

and be e-mailed to:

jobb-tn@uis.no 

Or mailed to:

University of Stavanger
Faculty of Science and Technology
Attn.: Lill-Karin Tvedt
N-4036 Stavanger

It is preferable that the application documents are sent by e-mail. 

The application should be marked st.id. 8200015.

Closing date for applications is 17.November 2008.
