UNIVERSITY OF STAVANGER

Research Fellow (PhD) in Plant Molecular, Cell and Computational Biology

The University of Stavanger invites applications for a three-year doctorate scholarship in Biological 
Chemistry at the Faculty of Science and Technology, Department of Mathematics and Natural 
Science, at the Centre for Organelle Research (CORE), beginning August 1, 2009.

The title of the project is “Prediction and functional characterization of novel plant 
peroxisomal proteins”.

The research group by Prof. S. Reumann aims to comprehensively characterize the physiological 
function of peroxisomes in the model plant Arabidopsis. To this end, we apply two large-scale 
approaches, i.e. computational protein prediction and proteomics. In collaboration with 
bioinformaticians in Germany and at UiS we develop and constantly improve new mathematical 
models for high-accuracy prediction of peroxisome targeting signals and test them by experimental 
in vivo subcellular localization studies. Proteins of key metabolic or regulatory functions, for 
instance those predicted to be involved in photorespiration and stress adaptation, are studied at the 
molecular level, for instance by heterologous gene overexpression, yeast complementation studies, 
and phenotypic characterization of Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines. 

The Reumann laboratory is part of the newly established Centre for Organelle Research (CORE), 
which houses state-of-the-art equipment in genomics, proteomics, and microscopy. CORE 
represents a highly active and stimulating environment and encourages collaborative and cross-
disciplinary research, for instance with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 
Profs. T. Ryen and T. Eftestøl). The project is technically and intellectually demanding and requires 
experience in plant physiology, molecular and cell biology. Students with a background and/or an 
interest in studying computational biology are prime candidates for the position.

Key references:

Changle Ma and Sigrun Reumann (2008) Improved prediction of peroxisomal PTS1 proteins from 
genome sequences based on experimental subcellular targeting analyses as exemplified for protein 
kinases from Arabidopsis. J. Exp. Bot. 59: 3767-79.
Sigrun Reumann et al. (2007) Proteome analysis of Arabidopsis leaf peroxisomes reveals novel 
targeting peptides, metabolic pathways, and defense mechanisms. Plant Cell 19:3170-93. 
Changle Ma, Martin Haslbeck, Lavanya Babujee, Olaf Jahn, Sigrun Reumann (2006) Identification 
and characterization of a stress-inducible and a constitutive small heat-shock protein targeted to the 
matrix of plant peroxisomes. Plant Physiol. 141, 47-60. 
Sigrun Reumann (2004) Specification of the peroxisome targeting signals type 1 and type 2 of plant 
peroxisomes by bioinformatics analyses. Plant Physiol. 135, 783-800
Sigrun Reumann, Changle Ma, Stefan Lemke, and Lavanya Babujee (2004). AraPerox. A database 
of putative Arabidopsis proteins from plant peroxisomes. Plant Physiol. 136, 2587-2608


The position is funded by Ministry of Education and Research. 

Applicants must have earned a Master degree or possess corresponding qualifications which could 
provide a basis for successfully completing a doctorate. It is necessary to have obtained an average 
grade of B or better in order to qualify. The appointee must be able to work independently and as a 
member of a team, be creative and innovative. The research fellow must have a good command of 
oral and written English.

The research fellow will be admitted to the doctoral program at the University of Stavanger on an 
agreement to complete the doctorate within the duration of the scholarship.

The program will mainly be carried out at the University of Stavanger, apart from a period of study 
abroad at a recognized and relevant centre of research.

The research fellow is salaried according to the State Salary Code, l.pl 17.515, code 1017, LR 20, 
ltr  45, of NOK 353.200,-  per annum. 

The position provides for automatic membership in the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund, 
which guarantees favorable retirement benefits. Members may also apply for home investment 
loans at favorable interest rates.

Project description and further information about the position can be obtained from Professor 
Sigrun Reumann, telephone +47 51 83 18 97 or +47 41 17 47 77, e-mail sigrun.reumann@uis.no 
(see also http://core.ux.uis.no/).

 The application must contain the following documents and material and must be submitted in three 
complete verified copies: 

1. A curriculum vita including educational background and employment history 
2. The application form (Information to be made available to the applicants, see 
     http://uis.cp-prod.uis.no/getfile.php/Ledige%20stillinger%20-
%20utvidet%20s%C3%B8knadsskjema/Utvidet_soekerskje_eng5.rtf) 
3. Diplomas and certificates (certified by the educational institution) 
4. References 
5. List of publications 
6. Any other documentation that the applicant considers relevant 

and be addressed to:
University of Stavanger
Faculty of Science and Technology
N-4036 Stavanger
Norway

The application should be marked st.id 30029595. 

Closing date for applications is April 15th, 2009
