Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Molecular Cell Biology and Plant Pathology  
 
 
 
The University of Stavanger invites applications for a three-year post-doctorate position 
in Molecular Cell Biology and Plant Pathology at the Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Department of Mathematics and Natural Science, at the Centre for Organelle Research 
(CORE), beginning July 1, 2011. The project is financed by the Norwegian Research 
Council (project 204822/F20).  
 
 
 
The title of the project is "Molecular analyses of peroxisome-mediated pathogen defense 
mechanisms in Arabidopsis".  
 
 
The position is available at the Centre for Organelle Research (CORE). Not only humans 
but also plants possess a highly evolved, sophisticated immune system that allows them 
to combat bacterial and fungal pathogens. Plant peroxisomes have not only important 
well-known functions in metabolism (photorespiration, ROS metabolism) but have been 
shown in the past few years to also carry out essential functions in plant innate immunity. 
By experimental proteome analyses and bioinformatics, our group recently identified 
many peroxisome-targeted proteins that are homologous to pathogen defense proteins of 
the immune system (e.g., R and LEA proteins). This research project focuses on 
functional molecular analyses of these proteins in order to characterize and understand 
the molecular mechanism(s) underlying pathogen resistance. To this end, a variety of 
methods including expression analyses by qPCR, pathogen susceptibility analyses of 
loss- and gain-of-function mutants, protein-protein interaction and complex analyses etc. 
will be applied. The research project is multidisciplinary, combining molecular biology, 
proteomics, cutting-edge imaging technology, biochemistry, and applied bioinformatics.  
 
Literature:  
Lingner et al. Identification of New Plant Peroxisomal Targeting Signals by a 
Combination of Machine Learning Methods and In Vivo Subcellular Targeting Analyses. 
(The Plant Cell, in press)  
Reumann Towards definition of the complete proteome of plant peroxisomes: Where 
experimental research needs to be complemented by bioinformatics (Proteomics in press)  
Reumann et al. (2009) In-depth proteome analysis of Arabidopsis leaf peroxisomes 
supplemented by in vivo subcellular targeting verification indicates novel metabolic and 
regulatory functions of peroxisomes. Plant Physiol. 150, 125-143  
Reumann et al. (2007) Proteome analysis of Arabidopsis leaf peroxisomes reveals novel 
targeting peptides, metabolic pathways, and defense mechanisms. Plant Cell 19, 3170-
3193.  
 
CORE houses state-of-the-art equipment in microscopy, genomics, and proteomics. 
CORE represents a highly active and stimulating environment and encourages 
collaborative and cross-disciplinary research. The project is technically and intellectually 
demanding and requires experience in molecular and cell biology, and, if possible, in 
plant pathology, proteomics, and bioinformatics. Applicants with such a background are 
prime candidates for the position.  
 
 
The objective of the position is to strengthen research and to give researchers/scholars 
with doctorates within relevant academic field(s) opportunities for further qualification. 
Applicants must have earned a PhD in biological sciences. The appointee must be able to 
work independently and as a member of a team, be creative and innovative. The research 
fellow must have a good command of both oral and written English.  
 
 
The applications will be assessed in relation to the relevance, quality and feasibility of the 
project. In addition to an evaluation of their submitted project plan and scientific work, 
potential candidates will be invited to an interview.  
 
 
 
The program will mainly be carried out at the University of Stavanger, apart from a 
period of study abroad at recognized and relevant centres of research.  
 
 
 
The research fellow is salaried according to the State Salary Code, l.pl 17510, code 1352, 
LR 24, ltr 57 of NOK 448 400, - per annum.  
 
 
 
The position provides for automatic membership in the Norwegian Public Service 
Pension Fund, which guarantees favourable retirement benefits. Members may also apply 
for home investment loans at favourable interest rates.  
 
 
 
Project description and further information about the position can be obtained from Prof. 
Sigrun Reumann, telephone +47 51 83 18 97, email sigrun.reumann@uis.no. See also 
http://core.uis.no/. 
 
 
 
Further information about the recruiting process can be obtained from Higher Executive 
Officer Hallgeir Hognestad, telephone +47 51 83 17 36, email 
hallgeir.k.hognestad@uis.no. 
 
 
The University is committed to a policy of equal opportunity in its employment practices. 
The University currently employs few female research fellows within this academic field 
and women are therefore particularly encouraged to apply.  
 
 
 
The application must contain the following documents and material and be submitted in 
three verified copies: CV, the form "Utvidet søkerskjema" (Information to be made 
available to the applicants), certificates/diplomas, references, list of publications, 
publications and any other documentation that the applicant considers relevant  
 
 
 
and be addressed to:  
 
University of Stavanger  
 
Faculty of Science and Technology  
 
Attn. Hallgeir K Hognestad  
 
N-4036 Stavanger  
 
 
 
The application should be marked st.id 30037860.  
 
 
 
Closing date for applications is April 26th, 2011.
