Research Fellow in Molecular and Cell Biology

The University of Stavanger invites applications for a three-year
doctorate scholarship in Biological Chemistry at the Faculty of
Science
and Technology, Department of Mathematics and Natural Science, at the
Centre for Organelle Research (CORE), beginning August 1, 2010.

The title of the project is ?Subcellular ROS signaling networks in
plants,
mammals, and algae?.

The position is available at the newly established Centre for
Organelle
Research (CORE). The project focuses on the communication between cell
organelles via reactive oxygen species (ROS) including H2O2 as the
master
regulator controlling a variety of stress responses. The ROS signaling
network is highly complex due to the subcellular artmentalization of
stress-induced H2O2 production. Cellular ROS dynamics have been
investigated to some extent in single cell compartments but hardly in
an
integrative perspective considering several major cell
compartments. In
the course of this project proteinaceous ROS sensors and spectral
variants
of green fluorescent protein will be targeted to different cell
compartments (e.g., chloroplasts, peroxisomes) to create multiply
labeled
cell lines for integrated, temporal and spatial high-resolution
analysis
of ROS dynamics by confocal microscopy (Nikon A1R).

The monitoring system will be applied to three model organisms
including
plants (Arabidopsis), mammals (human cell lines), and algae
(Chlamydomonas). ROS homeostasis will be perturbed by various means
(e.g.,
abiotic stress) including overexpressor lines and loss-of-function
mutants
of antioxidative enzymes and signal transduction components. Cutting
edge
imaging technologies will be applied to ensively dissect abiotic
ROS signaling and accurate monitoring of ROS (H2O2) production,
diffusion
and scavenging by a non-invasive method. The research project is
multidisciplinary combining cutting-edge imaging technology, molecular
biology and biochemistry.

CORE houses state-of-the-art equipment in microscopy, genomics, and
proteomics. CORE represents a highly active and stimulating
environment
and encourages collaborative and cross-disciplinary research. The
project
is technically and intellectually demanding and requires experience in
plant physiology, molecular and cell biology. Students with such a
background are prime candidates for the position.

Applicants must have earned a M. Sc. degree in biological sciences or
possess corresponding qualifications which could provide a basis for
successfully completing a doctorate. It is necessary to have obtained
an
average grade of B or better in order to qualify. The appointee must
be
able to work independently and as a member of a team, be creative and
innovative. The research fellow must have a good command of both oral
and
written English.

The research fellow will be admitted to the doctoral program at the
University of Stavanger on an agreement to complete the doctorate
within
the duration of the scholarship.

The program will mainly be carried out at the University of Stavanger,
apart from a period of study abroad at a recognized and relevant
centre of
research.

The research fellow is salaried according to the State Salary Code,
l.pl
17.515, code 1017, LR 20, ltr 45 of NOK 355 600 - per annum.

The position provides for automatic membership in the Norwegian Public
Service Pension Fund, which guarantees favourable retirement benefits.
Members may also apply for home investment loans at favourable
interest
rates.

Project description and further information about the position can be
obtained from Prof. Simon Geir MComprecomlllllllller, telephone, +47
51 84 17 17, email
simon.g.moller@uis.no or from Prof. Sigrun Reumann, telephone +47 51
83
18 97, email sigrun.reumann@uis.no. See also http://core.ux.uis.no/

Further information about the recruiting process can be obtained from
Higher Executive Officer Hallgeir Hognestad, telephone +47 51 83 17
36,
email hallgeir.k.hognestad@uis.no

The University is committed to a policy of equal opportunity in its
employment practices. The University currently employs few female
research
fellows within this academic field and women are therefore
particularly
encouraged to apply.

The application must contain the following documents and material and
be
submitted in three verified copies: CV, the form "Utvidet
skkkkkkkkerskjema"
(Information to be made available to the applicants),
certificates/diplomas, references, list of publications, publications
and
any other documentation that the applicant considers relevant

and be addressed to:
University of Stavanger
Faculty of Science and Technology
Attn. Hallgeir K Hognestad
N-4036 Stavanger

The application should be marked st.id 30033463.

Closing date for applications is March 31, 2010. 
