Several bioinformatics positions available for generating and analyzing plant 
metabolic networks

Two postdoctoral research positions and a database curator position are 
available immediately in Dr. Sue Rhee’s group at the Carnegie Institution, 
Department of Plant Biology (Stanford, CA). 

1) A bioinformatics postdoctoral position to predict metabolic pathway networks 
in higher plants computationally. This project will use a gold-standard, 
experimentally verified plant pathway data from the literature and available 
sequence data to generate metabolic networks for a number of plant species.

2) A bioinformatics postdoctoral position to create and test a predictable 
metabolic network model in Arabidopsis. This project aims to convert the 
manually curated Arabidopsis metabolic pathway database (AraCyc, 
www.arabidopsis.org/tools/aracyc) into a statistically robust, predictable model 
of a metabolic network and test the model by analyzing results of metabolite 
profiling experiments with specific reactions in the network removed. The 
project is a part of a larger metabolomics consortium program 
(www.plantmetabolomics.org) whose goal is to use metabolite profiling 
experiments as a way to elucidate enzyme functions and metabolic pathways.

3) A scientific database curator position to develop a comprehensive catalog of 
plant metabolic pathways and enzymes. The project expands the coverage of 
metabolic pathways from AraCyc to all known pathways in all plant species. This 
database will be used as a reference database to generate other organism-
specific plant pathway databases such as for maize, wheat, and poplar. The 
curator will be responsible for: i) researching new plant metabolic pathways and 
enzymes in the scientific literature, and to evaluate, extract, organize, and 
enter that information to the database; ii) contributing to the development of 
standard procedure and operation rules on curation methods and to the general 
development of the database, such as data integration, web page enhancement, and 
data exchange with other databases.; and iii) communicating with the research 
community to improve the quality of the data, to train them in using the 
database and related tools, and to support user requests. 

Requirements for the positions

The successful candidates will work with highly trained metabolism curators 
(post-Ph.D. level biologists with an expertise in plant metabolism), software 
developers and a number of pioneering plant biochemists around the world. 
Qualified candidates for the postdoc positions must have a Ph.D. or equivalent 
in Biology, Mathematics, Computer Science, Engineering or related field, a 
strong background in using statistics, programming and modeling, and strong 
communication skills. For the curator position, a Ph.D. degree in biochemistry 
or related field is required. The successful candidate should have a 
demonstrated ability for independent and critical thinking, excellent 
communication and teamwork skills. Experience with Unix operating system, Perl, 
and web page editing is an extra asset.

Please email a brief letter describing your research experience, plus your CV 
and contact information for 3 references to Dr. Sue Rhee at 
rhee@acoma.stanford.edu.

The Carnegie Institution, a private, nonprofit organization engaged in basic 
research and advanced education in biology, astronomy, and the earth sciences, 
was founded and endowed by Andrew Carnegie in 1902 and incorporated by an act of 
Congress in 1904. Andrew Carnegie conceived the Institution's purpose "to 
encourage, in the broadest and most liberal manner, investigation, research, and 
discovery, and the application of knowledge to the improvement of mankind." The 
Department of Plant Biology engages in basic research on the mechanisms involved 
in the growth and development of plants and algae. The Department of Plant 
Biology is co-located with the Carnegie Department of Global Ecology on a seven-
acre site on the campus of Stanford University.

 

