A postdoctoral research position available to generate and test a predictable 
metabolic network model in Arabidopsis

A bioinformatics postdoctoral position is available June 1, 2007 in the 
laboratory of Dr. Sue Rhee at the Carnegie Institution, Department of Plant 
Biology (Stanford, CA), to create and test a predictable metabolic network model 
in Arabidopsis. This project aims to convert the manually curated Arabidopsis 
metabolic pathway database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/biocyc/index.jsp) into 
a statistically robust, predictable model of metabolic network and test the 
model by analyzing results of metabolite profiling experiments in which specific 
reactions in the network have been removed by a knock-out mutation. The project 
is a part of a larger metabolomics consortium program(www.plantmetabolomics.org) 
and aims to test the feasibility of using metabolomics approaches in identifying 
gene function. This is a collaborative project among researchers in 
metabolomics, databases, computational biology, statistics, and engineering.

The Carnegie Institution, a private, nonprofit organization engaged in basic 
research and advanced education in biology, astronomy, and the earth sciences, 
was founded and endowed by Andrew Carnegie in 1902 and incorporated by an act of 
Congress in 1904. Andrew Carnegie conceived the Institution's purpose "to 
encourage, in the broadest and most liberal manner, investigation, research, 
and discovery, and the application of knowledge to the improvement of mankind." 
The Department of Plant Biology engages in basic research on the mechanisms 
involved in the growth and development of plants and algae. The Department of 
Plant Biology is co-located with the Carnegie Department of Global Ecology on a 
seven-acre site on the campus of Stanford University.

Qualified candidates must have a Ph.D. or equivalent in Biology, Mathematics, 
Computer Science, Engineering or related field, a strong background in using 
statistics, modeling and programming, and strong communication skills. Please 
email a brief letter describing your research experience, plus your CV and 
contact information for 3 references to Sue Rhee at rhee@acoma.stanford.edu.


   


 
