Faculty Position in Plant Systems Biology
 Michigan State University

As part of an initiative in Systems Biology, the Department of Plant
Biology at Michigan State University seeks to fill a faculty position in
genome-enabled plant systems biology. We are seeking an individual who
will address fundamental biological questions in plants and/or in
related model systems. Applications from individuals who generate and
integrate complex or heterogeneous data from metabolomic, proteomic, and
genomic studies or build models of metabolic or regulatory networks are
especially encouraged. The successful candidate will be expected to
develop a vigorous independent research program supported by extramural
funding. We are particularly interested in recruiting a colleague who
will participate in collaborative interdisciplinary research. The
successful candidate may have a joint appointment with another suitable
department and will contribute to undergraduate and graduate teaching in
their area of expertise. 

This faculty position is a tenure track, academic year appointment at
the Assistant Professor level. An appointment at the Associate Professor
level will be considered for exceptional candidates. Applicants must
have a PhD and postdoctoral research experience is highly desirable.
Applications should include a curriculum vitae, a summary of research
accomplishments and future research objectives, a brief description of
teaching philosophy/ goals and three letters of reference. Application
materials should be sent electronically to PLBSYS@msu.edu. Information
about the Department of Plant Biology can be found at
http://www.plantbiology.msu.edu. The review of applications will begin
September 7, 2007 and will continue until suitable candidates are
identified. Questions regarding this position may be sent toYair
Shachar-Hill (yairhill@msu.edu).

MSU is an affirmative action, equal opportunity employer
MSU is committed to achieving excellence through cultural diversity.
The university actively encourages applications and/or nominations of
women, persons of color, veterans and persons with disabilities.
