POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN GENOMIC ANALYSES OF THE REGULATORY 
NETWORK OF FLOWER DEVELOPMENT IN ARABIDOPSIS
Riechmann Laboratory
Center for Research in Agricultural Genomics (CRAG), CSIC-IRTA-UAB
08970 Barcelona, Spain


A two-year postdoctoral position is available at the new Center for Research 
in Agricultural Genomics (CRAG) in Barcelona, Spain, to study the gene 
regulatory network that controls flower development in Arabidopsis, using 
novel genomic technologies. The successful candidate will be expected to 
participate in, build on, and lead projects that include the identification of in 
vivo target sites and downstream genes of some of the transcription factors 
that regulate flower development, and reverse genetic experiments. The 
work provides opportunities to develop and enhance skills in molecular and 
plant biology, genomic technologies, genetics, and computational biology.

The CRAG provides excellent research opportunities, and will relocate in late 
2009 to a brand new building and state-of-the-art facilities in the campus of 
the Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB).  Barcelona offers a high 
quality of life, a rich international atmosphere, and diverse cultural and 
recreational activities.

The position is available immediately, and applications will be reviewed upon 
receipt. The position is initially funded for two years.  In addition, the 
successful candidate is expected to apply for her/his own fellowships to 
extend the postdoctoral stay.

Applicants should hold a recent PhD degree (or be prepared to obtain it no 
later than June 30, 2009), a good publication record, and strong molecular 
biology research experience. Applicants with experience in Arabidopsis 
genetics and cell biology, and/or genomic technologies, are especially 
encouraged to apply. English language skills are essential, but knowledge of 
Spanish is not a requirement.

Apply to: José Luis Riechmann (jlrgmp@cid.csic.es).  Please write the 
acronym “ARAFDEVGEN” in the subject line.  Applicants are requested to 
submit a curriculum vitae (resumé), a letter describing research interests, 
experience, and career goals, and the names and addresses (including e-
mail addresses) of three references.

For more about Dr. Riechmann, see 
www.icrea.cat/Web/ScientificForm.aspx?key=444
