The University of Toronto at Scarborough will be searching for two tenure stream 
Assistant professor positions in the fall.  Copies of the adverts are appended 
below.

_BIOCHEMIST_
The Department of Biological Sciences invites applications for a tenure stream 
position in plant or microbial protein biochemistry.  Applicants must have a PhD 
and at least one year of postdoctoral experience.  The ideal candidate will have 
demonstrated expertise in one of the areas of post-translational control of 
protein function, protein-protein interactions, or the biochemistry of membrane 
proteins.  They will also be conducting research in an area such as primary and 
secondary metabolism, signaling pathways, organismal response(s) to stress, 
membrane transport systems or plant-microbe interactions and will be expected to 
interact with existing research clusters studying the biology of plants and/or 
microbes.  The successful candidate will be expected to establish a strong, 
externally funded research program and to supervise graduate students.  S/he 
will have a strong commitment to excellence in teaching.  Further information on 
the research and teaching programs of the Department may be found by consulting 
the departmental web site at http://www.utsc.utoronto.ca/~biosci/index.html.

Applicants should submit a complete vita (including separate statements of 
research and teaching interests) and copies of recent reprints.  Three letters 
of recommendation (including comments on research, publications and teaching) 
should be provided.  All materials should be addressed to:  The Chair, Protein 
Biochemistry Search Committee, Department of Biological Sciences, University of 
Toronto Scarborough, 1265 Military Trail, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M1C 1A4 or 
to biologicalsciences@utsc.utoronto.ca.  The closing date for applications is 
October 1, 2007.  The position will be effective July 1, 2008.  Salary will be 
commensurate with qualifications and experience.  All qualified candidates are 
encouraged to apply, however, Canadians and permanent residents will be given 
priority.

COMMUNITY ECOLOGIST
The Department of Biological Sciences invites applications for a tenure stream 
position in community ecology.  We are particularly interested in applicants who 
have a strong field-based research program.  The successful candidate will join 
a group whose research strengths include macroecology, macroevolution, 
biogeography, and the dynamics of environmental change and will be expected to 
take an active role in both graduate and undergraduate teaching.  Further 
information on the research and teaching programs of the Department may be found 
by consulting the departmental web site at 
http://www.utsc.utoronto.ca/~biosci/index.html.

Applicants should submit a complete vita (including separate statements of 
research and teaching interests) and copies of recent reprints and arrange to 
have three letters of recommendation  (including comments on research, 
publications and teaching) sent by referees.  All materials should be addressed 
to:  The Chair, Community Ecology Search Committee, Department of Biological 
Sciences, University of Toronto Scarborough, 1265 Military Trail, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada, M1C 1A4 or to biologicalsciences@utsc.utoronto.ca.  The closing 
date for applications is October 1, 2007.  The position will be effective July 
1, 2008.  Salary will be commensurate with qualifications and experience.  All 
qualified candidates are encouraged to apply, however, Canadians and permanent 
residents will be given priority.

The University of Toronto is strongly committed to diversity within its 
community and especially welcomes applications from visible minority group 
members, women, Aboriginal persons, persons with disabilities, members of sexual 
minority groups, and others who may contribute to the further diversification of 
ideas.  The University is responsive to the needs of dual career couples.  The 
University of Toronto offers the opportunity to conduct research, teach, and 
live in one of the most diverse cities in the world.
