Dept. of Forest Genetics and Plant Physiology in Umeå
1 PhD student in the research education subject: Biology

Cell wall biosynthesis regulation via the endomembrane system

The cell wall of plants provides mechanical strength, defines cell shape and plant 
morphology, and is a protection from pathogen attack. The cell wall is composed of 
different polysaccharides including cellulose microfibrills that are embedded in a 
hemicellulosic and pectic matrix along with proteins. The regulation of cell wall 
dynamics occurs at multiple levels but is particularly influenced by the endomembrane 
system and the secretory pathway. The biogenenis and maintenance of the 
endomembrane compartments, plasma membrane (PM) and cell wall all rely on vesicular 
trafficking, which involves vesicle formation, transport and fusion with target 
membranes. Endocytosis is the process of cellular ingestion by which the PM invaginates 
inward to deliver cargo molecules into the cell or to regulate protein amounts at the PM. 
This phenomenon is extremely important in fast developmental responses. Chemical 
biology is the use of small molecules to modify or disrupt the function of specific 
proteins. The power of this approach is the ability to study protein function in vivo with 
precise control of rapid endomembrane trafficking processes response via bioactive 
chemicals. A large-scale screen (50, 000 compounds) of unbiased libraries of diverse 
small molecules has identified 129 novel bioactive molecules valuable for the 
characterization of endomembrane trafficking pathways. Identification of compounds that 
specifically alter the trafficking of proteins involved in the synthesis and the deposition of 
the primary cell walls Preliminary experiments indicate that among the 129 bioactive 
compounds, 60 are potential inhibitors of endocytosis. Using FT-IR microspectroscopy 
(Mouille et al., 2003), the PhD student will evaluate the impact of selected compounds on 
cell wall composition and structure in Arabidopsis thaliana. This study will allow the 
classification and selection of compounds according to their effects on cell wall 
composition. In addition, the PhD student will conduct detailed macro-level phenotypic 
analyses of Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings resulting from selected compounds. This study 
will be implemented by a cell biology approach. Using Confocal Laser Scanning 
Microscopy (CLSM), different transgenic lines expressing subcellular fluorescent 
markers will define the chemically targeted endomembrane pathways. The compounds 
that specifically perturb cell wall composition and structure will be used as probes to 
evaluate the trafficking of KOR1 and CESA3, two proteins intimately involved in 
cellulose biosynthesis. Identification of new molecular components involved in cell wall 
biosynthesis and deposition To discover novel genes involved in trafficking and wall 
composition and structure, selected lead bioactive compounds will be used to selection 
for compound-specific resistant or hypersensitive mutants. For this purpose, an EMS 
mutagenized population would be created in an Arabidopsis thaliana line expressing a 
essential protein for cell wall biosynthesis, such as KOR1 fused with a fluorescent 
protein. Mutants will be characterized and the most promising will be mapped using a 
rapid combination of rough mapping (50 – 100 individuals) using confocal microscopy 
and Illumina next generation sequencing to identify mutations.

Qualifications
The PhD candidate should have a master degree in Biology or Chemistry. A previous 
experience in Cell Biology would be a plus. He/she should read and speak scientific 
English fluently and have good communication skills.

Forms for funding or employment
Employment as PhD student 4 years

SLU is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

A person has basic eligibility for third level education if he or she has taken a second 
level qualification or has completed course requirements of at least 240 higher education 
credits, including at least 60 higher education credits at second level.

Those who met the requirements for general eligibility before July 1st, 2007, i.e. had 
completed a programme of higher education for at least 180 Higher education credits or 
the equivalent, will continue to do so until the end of 2015."

Selection among applicants meeting the requirements is made with reference to written 
application including curriculum vitae, copies of degrees and transcripts of academic 
records, one copy of the dissertation for masters or undergraduate degree, a list of at least 
two references familiar with the applicant's qualifications, certified knowledge of the 
English language and an interview.

Read more about the PhD education in the Handbook for postgraduate students

Read about the PhD education at SLU at www.slu.se/en/education/postgraduate-studies/

Further information: Stephanie.Robert@slu.se

Academic union representatives
SACO Per Hansson +46 (0)90 786 84 74
SEKO Inga-Lis Johansson +46 (0)90 786 82 10
ST Hans Åkesson +46 (0)90 786 82 48

PhD-student commissioner
Monika Appel, 018-67 15 60, doktorandombudsmannen@sluss.nu

Applications, marked with ref no SLU ua 1908/2011, must have arrived at the Registrar 
of SLU, P.O. Box 7070, S- 750 07 Uppsala or registrator@slu.se no later than 2011-06-
30.
