The Department of Plant Biology at North Carolina State University invites 
applications by Plant Cell Biologists for a 12 month, tenure-track Assistant 
Professor position. We seek a broadly trained plant cell biologist who uses 
cutting-edge techniques for live-cell imaging to address fundamental questions 
in plant cell biology. The responsibilities include teaching and research. 
Teaching responsibilities would depend on the candidate’s area of expertise, but 
would involve teaching advanced level courses such as plant cell biology or 
confocal microscopy. The individual is expected to develop a dynamic and 
productive, extramurally funded research program that enhances and complements 
existing programs in the Department, College and University.

We are the basic plant biology department in the NC State University College of 
Agriculture and Life Sciences, serving as the focal point for several 
interdepartmental and interdisciplinary programs in research, teaching, and 
graduate training. Areas of research interest within the department include 
cellular, molecular, systems, and developmental biology, functional genomics, 
phytochemistry, ecology, and systematics.

The Department is home to the Cellular and Molecular Imaging Facility 
(http://www.ncsu.edu//project/cmif-micro/) which houses confocal and light 
microscopy instrumentation. Other available facilities include an herbarium, 
controlled environment growth facility (Phytotron), electron microscopy center, 
and genomics, metabolomics and proteomics research laboratories. NC State 
University faculty also interact extensively with colleagues at UNC-Chapel Hill 
and Duke University through seminars and symposia, including those sponsored by 
the NC Consortium for Plant Molecular Biology.  For further information about 
the Department, please visit our website: http://cals.ncsu.edu/plantbiology/ .

Candidates must have a PhD degree in plant biology or related discipline, with 
expertise in plant cell biology and cellular imaging and a record of peer-
reviewed publications and scholarly accomplishments commensurate with 
experience.  Postdoctoral experience is preferred.  To apply, please go to 
jobs.ncsu.edu and search for position number EPV 01-05-0706.  Applicants should 
attach to the online application: a CV and a statement of research and teaching 
interests.  In addition, applicants should arrange for three letters of 
recommendation to be sent to: Dr. Wendy Boss, Chair, Plant Cell Biology Search 
Committee, Department of Plant Biology, North Carolina State University, 
Raleigh, NC, 27695-7612 (email: wendy_boss@ncsu.edu).  Applications received 
prior to Dec. 1, 2007 will be assured of full consideration.  The position is 
available July 1, 2008.


