Postdoctoral Research Associate

Stony Brook University is seeking a Postdoctoral Research Associate to
work in the Biology Department at Brookhaven National Laboratory. The
successful candidate will be working on exploring the molecular basis for
the transport and deposition of cell wall lignin precursors and the
related "wall-bound" phenolics. Responsibilities include 1) screening and
identifying the potential membrane-bound transporter genes from
Arabidopsis and other related species by using bioinformatics analysis, in
silico and qRT-PCR based gene transcription profiling and reverse genetic
studies, 2) developing and applying in vitro screening and assay systems
to assess the biochemical functions of the identified transporter
proteins; 3) evaluating and characterizing the biological functions of the
selected membrane-bound transporters using the "loss-and gain- of
function" strategies. In addition, he or she needs to assist in
supervising the periodic research activities of undergraduates, summer
interns and/or high school students involved in this project, & will
respond for summarizing & reporting the data to the PI.
A Ph.D. in Plant Biochemistry and Molecular Biology or a related field is
desired. The candidate should have profound hand-on experiences and skills
in molecular genetics and biochemical studies and have a proved record of
publication(s). Experience in the isolation, purification and
reconstitution of cell membranes, expression of membrane proteins, and
chemical analysis of plant cell wall compositions are desirable, and
knowledge in cell biology and plant secondary metabolisms, particularly,
on the biosynthesis of plant phenolics and polyphenolics is a plus.

Those interested should send a resume and three references to Dr.
Chang-Jun Liu, Scientist in Brookhaven National Laboratory, P.O. Box 5000,
Upton, New York 11973-5000; or email to or cliu@bnl.gov . For a full
position description, or to apply on-line, visit www.stonybrook.edu/jobs.
REF. #: WC-R-6780-11-04-S

