The following position is available at the university of Copenhagen,
Denmark. Please note that applications have to be made by post.
 
Post doc within regulation of plant secondary metabolism 
 
The University of Copenhagen, Faculty of Life Sciences, Department of
Plant Biology wishes to appoint a post doc within the regulation of
plant secondary metabolism for two years from October 1st 2007 or as
soon as possible thereafter.
 
Job description
The post doc's duties will include research within the area of
transcriptional control of gene expression. The post may include
teaching to a limited extent. 
 
The position is part of a research project focussed on the regulation
of plant secondary metabolism, in particular the control of isoflavonoid
production in Lotus japonicus using a transcription factor array and
both forward and reverse genetic approaches. 
 
The appointee should ideally have qualifications within the following
areas: 
 Plant transcription factors. Experience with transcriptomics (spotted
micro-arrays). Interest in plant secondary metabolism.

 
The post is financed by the Danish Agency for Science Technology and
Innovation.
 
Qualification requirements
In connection with the appointment to the post special importance will
be attached to the applicant having the professional and personal
qualifications stated below: 
 Documented scientific qualifications such as a PhD or equivalent in
relation to the above subject areas.

·         Solid scientific production as documented by scientific
publications in peer reviewed journals.
·         Fluency in English. The University of Copenhagen generally
encourages employees who do not speak Danish to acquire a working
knowledge of the language.
 
The post doc is also required to be enterprising and to possess good
interpersonal skills.
 
Terms of employment
The post will be filled according to the Agreement between the Danish
Ministry of Finance and the Danish Confederation of Professional
Associations. The post is covered by the Protocol on Job Structure. 
 
Questions
For further information about the post, please contact Professor Cathie
Martin, or Associate Professor, Dr. Fred Rook, tel. (+45) 353 33343.
 
Application
The application must be submitted in triplicate (sorted). The
application must include a reply e-mail address.Each application must
include the following appendices marked with the stated appendix
numbers:
 
Appendix 1:    curriculum vitae with copies of university diplomas.
Appendix 2:    a complete list of publications and list of submitted
appendices.
Appendix 3: reprints of a maximum of 10 relevant scientific works which
the applicant wishes to be included in the assessment.
Appendix 4:    documentation of research and teaching qualifications.
 
The application must be accompanied by: 
-          a floppy disc or CD-ROM in WordXP/2003 legible format with
appendices 1 and 2.
 
In addition to the material the applicant wishes to be included in the
assessment, the Assessment Committee may include further material in
their assessment of the applicant. In such circumstances, it is the
responsibility of the applicant, on request, to send the material to the
Committee.
 
Following processing of the application, any application material sent
will be destroyed.
 
Receipt of the application will not be acknowledged but the applicant
will be kept continuously informed of the progress of the application. 
 
The applicant will be assessed according to the Ministry of Science
Technology and Innovation Executive Order no170 of 17. March 2005
 
The application, marked 621-101 should be sent to The University of
Copenhagen, Faculty of Life Sciences, Faculty Service, Bülowsvej 17,
DK-1870 Frederiksberg, Denmark, where it must be received no later than
August 15th, 2007 at 12.00 noon. Applications received after the
closing date for applications will not be considered. 
 
E-mail applications will not be accepted.
