JOB OPPORTUNITY 
Established in 1998, CropDesign NV is one of the worldwide leading, innovative biotech 
companies, focusing on the improvement of crops, cereals in particular. Our aim is to obtain 
higher yield, increased tolerance to stress and better nutrient utilization. The company applies 
advanced genomics, informatics and robotics technologies. CropDesign NV has developed the 
high throughput phenotyping platform, called TraitMill™. This TraitMill™ platform is used to 
unravel the function of thousands of genes involved in yield and yield stability signalling 
pathways. We employ almost 100 motivated employees and occupy state-of-the-art laboratories 
in the Technologiepark in Gent (Zwijnaarde) and an automated greenhouse complex in Nevele. 
CropDesign NV is a subsidiary of BASF Plant Science. Together with 6 other research centers 
across the world, we form the global research platform of BASF Plant Science with the common 
goal to develop new improved products. 
Currently, as part of the European project Bravissimo, we are looking for a: Plant Scientist 
Your profile: 
- University graduate (Life Science) 
- Strong interest in Plant Applied Research 
- Less than 4 years of experience in research and close to PhD degree defense 
- All nationalities can apply (except Belgians) 
Purpose of the project: 
Plant growth is regulated by developmental programs that can be modified by environmental cues 
such as plant hormones. Brassinosteroids (BRs) determine major traits of agronomic importance, 
including biomass, crop yield, senescence time, plant stature, flower development and 
architecture, and stress adaptation. Aim of this Bravissimo project is to better understand the 
function of BRs in the development of new plant varieties that are better adapted to challenging 
environmental changes. 
Major objectives: 
1. Training: 
· The position we offer will give the opportunity to acquire the methods needed to carry 
out your part of the project in any of the participating laboratories and industry. 
· Network wide training courses will be organized around recently developed 
approaches (e.g. protein complex purification, micro-array technology, imaging 
microscopy and high throughput approaches). 
2. Technological: 
· BRAVISSIMO project will set up a technology platform for BR research in Europe to 
provide tools for gene expression, protein complex purification, imaging, highthroughput 
analysis of gene function and high-resolution phenotypic evaluation or 
crop traits. 
Our offer: 
CropDesign is one of the leading applied genomic companies in the area of agricultural 
biotechnology. 
We provide you a very exciting environment with cutting-edge science and technologies. 
CropDesign is very well connected to the international biotechnology community. Being part of 
the BASF Plant Science family of companies, CropDesign provides the comfort of a medium-size 
company and access to a multidisciplinary and multicultural network of expert colleagues. We 
offer a competitive compensation & benefit package as well. 
To apply for this position, please send your CV to jobs@cropdesign.com referring to the title of 
this vacancy.
