We are seeking a postdoctoral researcher/teacher to fill a central role in
the NSF-supported Undergraduate Phenotyping of Arabidopsis Knowledgebase
(UnPAK; see description below) project.



The successful candidate will possess a PhD in the biological sciences, have
skills in database design and maintenance, be enthusiastic about teaching
part-time in the College of Charleston Biology Department's
ecology/evolution course sequence (details below) and mentoring
undergraduate researchers. An ideal candidate will also possess additional
technical skills including PCR-based methods, experience with plant growth
chamber or greenhouse growing methods (ideally in Arabidopsis), and
cyberinfrastructure/bioinformatics capabilities.



This position offers substantial opportunities in both research and
education, and would be ideal for an individual who aspires to an academic
career at an institution that embraces the teacher-scholar model.
Individuals who are most successful at these institutions often bring
experience in high-impact teaching and cutting-edge scholarship with them
when they apply-exactly the experiences that will result from tenure as a
UnPAK postdoctoral researcher.



The UnPAK postdoc will have the first chance to synthesize genetic and
phenotypic data as it is collected and will be encouraged to pursue
independent projects within the context of the overall research program (use
of phenotypic effects of T-DNA insertion mutants in Arabidopsis to answer
fundamental questions about Arabidopsis genome structure and function across
environments). There will be extensive opportunities for professional
networking during interactions among partner institutions involved in the
project (including Barnard College, Hampden-Sydney, and University of
Georgia).



In addition to Arabidopsis research opportunities, the UnPAK postdoc can be
involved in collaborative efforts in building educational resources. This
postdoc will also have opportunities to learn about educational research, as
the UnPAK network will serve as a context for understanding the impacts on
undergraduates of participating in a research network



Initially, teaching would be within the College of Charleston course
BIOL211, see
http://catalogs.cofc.edu/pdf/Undergraduate_Catalog_2011-2012.pdf, page 148.



Inquiries about this position can be sent to Matt Rutter
(rutterm@cofc.edu<mailto:
rutterm@cofc.edu> ), Courtney Murren (murrenc@cofc.ed <mailto:
murrenc@cofc.ed> ) or Allan Strand (stranda@cofc.edu <mailto:
stranda@cofc.edu> ). Applications should include a CV, a cover letter, and
contact information for 3 references and can be sent as PDF files directly
to Allan Strand (stranda@cofc.edu <mailto:stranda@cofc.edu> ). Review of
applications will begin immediately and will continue until the position is
filled. The College of Charleston is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative
Action Employer and encourages applications from women and minorities.



A short overview of UnPAK

The research community has generated a set of T-DNA insertion lines aimed at
elucidating the functions of the ~27,000 genes in Arabidopsis thaliana.
These lines are thought to represent "knockouts" of most A. thaliana genes,
yet the vast majority display subtle if any morphological phenotypes. This
"absence of phenotype" phenomenon has been observed in other model systems.
In yeast, researchers have turned their focus to characterizing performance
attributes of knockouts, such as population growth rate and fitness as well
as the plasticity of these traits across environments. This strategy has
succeeded in finding phenotypic differences where none had been previously
observed. Given this proof of principle and its utility for answering
questions about genetic redundancy and genomic evolution, we are applying a
similar approach to the study of A. thaliana as a multicellular and
autotrophic model. We are doing so through collaboration among primarily
undergraduate institution!
 s (PUIs), thus training future researchers in the process of building a
body of published work in genomics and applied ecology and a network of
collaborators.

