
Postdoctoral Researcher

Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral Researcher to join the Laboratory 
of Robert Sablowski in the Department Cell and Developmental Biology at the 
John Innes Centre.

The project will take advantage of recent developments in imaging techniques 
to reveal the cell division and growth patterns that underpin the early stages
 of stem development in Arabidopsis, and how this cell behaviour is influenced
 by regulatory genes that function in the rib meristem. In addition to giving 
us insight into a major but poorly understood aspect of how plants grow, the 
knowledge and methods produced are expected to aid future crop breeding. For 
further details of the research group please see 
http://www.jic.ac.uk/STAFF/robert-sablowski/sablowski.htm.

A PhD in cell biology, development or molecular biology is required. The ideal 
candidate will have a proven record of scientific productivity and will combine 
rigorous and creative thought with attention to detail and ability to integrate 
their own project and results with knowledge from the relevant literature. 
Experience with confocal microscopy, image analysis and Arabidopsis genetics 
will be advantageous. Fine motor skills for microdissection and microscopy are 
also desirable.

We will be providing the job-holder with opportunities to develop their technical 
and transferable skills during this assignment, by way of training programmes, 
coaching and mentoring. Candidates who have up to three years postdoctoral 
experience will be appointed under the Postdoctoral Training Fellowship scheme 
http://www.jic.ac.uk/corporate/opportunities/PDTF.html.

Salary on appointment will be within the range £26,600 to £27,800 per annum 
depending on qualifications and experience.

For further information and details of how to apply, please visit our web site 
http://jobs.jic.ac.uk or contact Human Resources, The Operations Centre, Norwich 
Bioscience Institutes, Norwich, NR4 7UH, UK, 01603 450462 quoting reference 
1002131. 
Informal enquiries can be sent directly to Robert Sablowski 
(robert.sablowski@jic.ac.uk).

The closing date for applications will be 11 November 2011

The John Innes Centre is a registered charity (No. 223852) grant-aided by the 
Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council and is an Equal 
Opportunities Employer. 
