Postdoctoral Researcher 

Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral Researcher to join the Laboratory of Robert 
Sablowski in the Department Cell and Developmental Biology at the John Innes Centre. 

The overall aim of the project is to use 3D, quantitative imaging of cell geometry and cell 
cycle progression in developing organs, combined with ChIP-Seq in synchronized organs, to 
reveal what are the growth-limiting cellular processes that are targeted during organ 
initiation and growth by key regulatory genes. For further details of the research group 
please see http://www.jic.ac.uk/STAFF/robert-sablowski/sablowski.htm. 

A PhD in cell biology, development or molecular biology is required. The ideal candidate 
will have a proven record of scientific productivity and will combine rigorous and creative 
thought with attention to detail and ability to integrate their own project and results 
with knowledge from the relevant literature. Experience with confocal microscopy, image 
analysis and Arabidopsis genetics will be advantageous. Fine motor skills for microdissection 
and microscopy are also desirable. 

We will be providing the job holder with opportunities to develop their technical and 
transferable skills during this assignment, by way of training programs, coaching and 
mentoring. Candidates who have up to three years postdoctoral experience will be appointed 
under the Postdoctoral Training Fellowship scheme 
http://www.jic.ac.uk/corporate/opportunities/PDTF.html. 

Salary on appointment will be within the range £26,600 to £27,800 per annum depending on 
qualifications and experience. 

For further information and details of how to apply, please visit our web site 
http://jobs.jic.ac.uk&lt;http://jobs.jic.ac.uk/> or contact Human Resources, The 
Operations Centre, Norwich Bioscience Institutes, Norwich, NR4 7UH, UK, 01603 450462 
quoting reference 1002221. Informal enquiries can be sent directly to Robert Sablowski 
(robert.sablowski@jic.ac.uk). 

The closing date for applications will be 29 April 2012 

The John Innes Centre is a registered charity (No. 223852) grant-aided by the 
Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council and is an Equal Opportunities 
Employer. 