Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Computational Systems Biology 

Application End: Saturday March 31 2012 

The Laboratory of Computational Systems Biology at the Faculty of Informatics, 
Masaryk University, Czech Republic is currently expanding its research team and 
is looking for highly motivated and talented individuals to a three year-fixed 
term post. 

The position is available to participate in a project focused on parameter 
estimation in computational systems biology. 

A central challenge in computational modeling of biological systems is the 
determination of the model parameters. Typically, only a fraction of the 
parameters (such as kinetic rate constants) are experimentally measured, while 
the rest are often fitted. The fitting process is usually based on experimental 
time course measurements of observables, which are used to assign parameter 
values that minimize some measure of the error between these measurements and 
the corresponding model prediction. 

The goal of our research is to develop effective, fast, and scalable methods, 
techniques and tools for automated parameter estimation for computational 
analysis of biological systems. Our approach considers a generalized form of the 
problem provided that traditional fitting to experimental measurements is 
enhanced by considering several explicit hypotheses about expected behavior of 
the system. We employ computer science approaches, methods and techniques as 
known from the analysis of computer systems (like model checking) to fit 
parameters according to the expected behavior. Requirements 

Candidates must hold a PhD degree (or equivalent) awarded after 1 April 2008, 
should be highly motivated and have either a strong background in systems 
biology, molecular biology, cell biology or biochemistry OR a strong background 
in informatics or computational modeling and an interest in biological 
systems. Candidate must have excellent analytical skills, and strong 
interpersonal and communication skills. 

The deadline for applications is March 31, 2012. The gross salary is about 2200 
EUR per month. The post is available from September 1, 2012, but the precise 
starting date is negotiable. 

Interested candidates should email their CV, list of publications, brief statement of 
interest and career goals, names and contact information for 3 references contained in 
one single PDF file to: 

Prof. Lubos Brim 
Masaryk University Brno 
Faculty of Informatics 
Botanicka 68a, 602 00 Brno 
Czech Republic 
Email: brim at fi dot muni dot cz 
