Cell wall biosynthesis - Post doc positions 
 
Molecular & Cell Biologist, Chemist: 
 
Three post doc positions are available at Joint Bioenergy Institute. The incumbent shall 
be responsible for developing new methods and using existing methods for investigating 
enzymes involved in biosynthesis of plant cell walls and characterizing plants with 
mutations in the genes encoding these enzymes. Candidates for the positions should have 
experience with biochemistry and molecular biology. Candidates should also have 
experence in one or more of the following areas and techniques: HPLC, characterization 
of complex carbohydrates, plant genetics, heterologous expression of proteins, and 
animal cell culture. 
Position 1: Heterologous expression of glycosyltransferases in insect cells 
Position 2: Development of high through put methods for assaying cell wall biosynthetic 
enzymes. 
Position 3: Biochemistry of polysaccharide modifications, particularly feruloylation of 
hemicelluloses 
 
Duties: 
• Develop methods to analyze function of glycosyltransferases and other cell wall 
biosynthetic enzymes. Cultivate and transform animal cells. 
• Reverse genetics in Arabidopsis. Bioimaging. 
• Collect and analyze data and prepare results for publication in scientific journals and 
presentations at seminars. 
• Assist with the development of funding proposals. Assist PI with training and managing 
the workflow of technical staff and students. Participate in group meetings and seminars. 
• Maintain an accurate and detailed scientific logbook of all experiments performed. 
Ensure that others could duplicate results. 
 
Qualifications: 
• Ph.D in Biochemistry, Molecular Biology or related areas. 
• Knowledge of biological systems. Experience with characterization of complex 
carbohydrates. 
• Experience with enzyme assays. 
• Demonstrated ability to conduct experiments independently, maintain appropriate 
records and manage data. Strong collaborative skills and ability to work in a team 
environment. 
 
The Joint BioEnergy Institute (JBEI) is a new multi-organizational research center 
comprising world-class resources and expertise located in one facility at Emeryville, 
California. The goal of JBEI is to use rapidly advancing scientific techniques, such as 
systems and synthetic biology, to accelerate development of the nation's biofuels 
industry. JBEI is a U.S. Department of Energy funded Bioenergy Research Center, 
managed by Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL) with partners from 5 
internationally recognized scientific institutions: Sandia National Laboratories (SNL), 
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL), University of California-Davis 
(UCD), University of California-Berkeley (UCB), and the Carnegie Institution for 
Science 
 
Notes: 
These are one year Term appointments, renewable under the same conditions, contingent 
upon the continued availability of funding and work. For consideration apply online at: 
http://jobs.lbl.gov, select “Search Jobs”, and enter jobnumber 21752 in the keyword 
search field. For additional information please refer questions to Dr. Henrik V. Scheller at 
hscheller@lbl.gov. For more information about JBEI Feedstocks go to: 
www.jbei.org/feedstocks
