Tenure-Track Faculty Positions, The Dept. of Plant Cellular and Molecular 
Biology and the Dept. of Molecular Genetics, Ohio State University 
 
The Department of Plant Cellular and Molecular Biology and the Department of 
Molecular Genetics, in conjunction with the Plant Molecular 
Biology/Biotechnology program (PMBB), invite applications for two full-time, 
tenure-track positions at the Assistant Professor level.  These positions 
are part of the new Translational Plant Sciences emphasis within OSU’s 
Targeted Investment in Excellence initiative.  Successful applicants are 
expected to develop an outstanding and novel research program and 
demonstrate a commitment to teaching at the undergraduate and graduate 
levels. 
 
Applicants with expertise in any area of plant molecular, cellular, and 
developmental biology are encouraged to apply.  Potential areas of emphasis 
include plant biochemistry, genomics, systems biology, and biotechnology 
that focuses on fundamental processes related to bioenergy, bioproducts, and 
carbon sequestration. This research is intended to enhance fuel, food, human 
health and/or environmental quality through the use of eukaryotic 
photosynthetic organisms.  Departmental faculty members participate in 
numerous campus-wide programs, centers, and focus groups including PMBB, the 
Plant Biotechnology Center, the Molecular Plant-Microbe Interaction Group, 
the Cell Biology Group, the Developmental Genetics Group, the Center for RNA 
Biology, the Institute for Energy and the Environment, the Arabidopsis 
Biological Resource Center, and the Mathematical Biosciences Institute.  The 
Ohio State University is the flagship institution of the state's higher 
education system.  It is located in Columbus, the state capital.  Columbus 
is a rapidly growing and vibrant large city with a village flavor, and has 
been ranked as one of the country's best places to live and work.  Further 
information about the departments, PMBB, the university, and Columbus can be 
obtained at http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/~plantbio/ (Plant Cellular and 
Molecular Biology), http://www.osumolgen.org (Molecular Genetics), and 
http://www.ag.ohio-state.edu/~pmbb/ (PMBB). 
 
Candidates with a Ph.D. and suitable postdoctoral experience can submit 
applications to pbsearch@biosci.osu.edu as a single PDF file that includes a 
curriculum vitae, a concise (3 pages or less) statement of research plans, a 
brief description of teaching experience and interests, and names of at 
least 3 professional references.  A PDF is preferred, but paper copies may 
be sent to Search Committee Chair, Dept. of Plant Cellular and Molecular 
Biology, Ohio State University, 500 Aronoff Laboratory, 318 West 12th Ave., 
Columbus, OH 43210-1242.  Review of applications will begin November 30, 
2008 and will continue until a suitable candidate is identified.  The Ohio 
State University is an EEO/AA Employer.  To build a diverse workforce Ohio 
State encourages applications from individuals with disabilities, 
minorities, veterans, and women.  Flexible work options available.
