Phd position in plant epigenetics

Topic: During the lifetime of multicellular organisms, specific patterns that 
have been established 
in development need to be maintained throughout the lifecycle. These changes 
need to be 
mitotically stable and heritable, but have to be reset in the next generation 
and –predominantly in 
plants- during regeneration and therefore must not rely on changes in DNA 
sequence. 
Consequently, epigenetic mechanisms probably significantly contribute to the 
control of cell fate. 
Key epigenetic regulators of plant development are the Polycomb-group (Pc-G) 
proteins which 
control histone methylation.  

Project: New factors that epigenetically control cell fate in the model plant 
species  Arabidopsis 
thaliana shall be identified and characterized. 
Interactors of plant Pc-G proteins have been previously isolated. Preliminary 
analyses of the 
corresponding mutants suggest that novel and interesting candidates have been 
identified (D). 
The analyses shall be backed-up by a sensitive genetic screen. Mutants from both 
approaches 
will be phenotypically characterized using various techniques, interactions with 
known Pc-G 
members will be biochemically confirmed and state-of-the-art techniques will be 
applied to 
analyse the chromatin profile of Pc-G target genes in the mutants.  

Lab: Our lab is part of the Collaborative Research Center (SFB) 590 „Inherent 
and adaptive 
differentiation processes“. The SFB offers a graduate program and excellent 
technical support for 
the molecular analysis of developmental processes. Lab and growth chambers were 
established 
in June 2006. 
Düsseldorf is a nice and lively city which offers both cultural and sportive 
opportunities. 
Qualifications:  Applicants must have completed a diploma or masters degree in 
Biological 
Sciences. A background in genetics, molecular biology or biochemistry is 
preferred. Applicants 
are expected to be highly motivated and creative team players. German is not a 
requirement. 
Salary: A salary according to German BAT standards will be provided for three 
years.
Please provide a short CV, publication list, list of experimental expertise, 
name and email address 
of your masters/diploma supervisor, short summaries of your current research 
project and your 
interest in the advertised project/position. Please send a single pdf document, 
preferentially by 
email. 
Dr. Daniel Schubert
Institute for Genetics
Geb. 26.03, U1, R11
Heinrich-Heine-University Duesseldorf
Germany
Daniel.Schubert@uni-duesseldorf.de
http://www.genetik.uni-duesseldorf.de/Gruppen/schubert

