2 PhD students in Molecular Plant Biology 
1.0 FTE each 
The projects emerged from a collaboration between the Plant Physiology and Population Biology 
research groups of resp. the Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences and the Institute for 
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics. 
PhD student 1 is funded by TTI GREEN GENETICS and ALW/NWO and is entitled: "Novel 
tomatoes that counteract herbivore-mediated suppression of plant defences" (vacancy number 
09-1013). 
When plants are challenged with herbivores they establish defenses but many herbivores are 
adapted to resist these defenses. Recently we showed that some herbivores, such as mites, can 
suppress plant defenses, i.e. they are 'stealthy', although this ability varies between individuals 
within populations. To help tomato plants in coping with defense-repressing pests we will 
genetically modify tomatoes such that inducible defenses are restored. We will use high-
throughput sequencing and qRT-PCR to identify tomato genes targeted by stealthy mites, 
focusing on regulatory genes involved in production of volatile metabolites and trichome toxins. 
New tomato lines invulnerable for stealthy-mite manipulations will be tested for resistance under 
greenhouse conditions. A post-doc researcher will start simultaneously on a parallel research line 
funded within the same project. 
PhD student 2 is funded by ALW/NWO and is entitled: "The role of E-2-hexenal and GABA in 
plant stress responses" (vacancy number 09-1014). 
Plants are continuously exposed to various forms of (a)biotic stress and have developed an 
extensive repertoire of responses to cope with it. One of the first reactions is the oxidation of fatty 
acids in the plasma membrane from which several products can arise such as reactive 
electrophile species (RES). Evidence is accumulating that plants actively generate RES as 
signaling molecules. We will focus on the volatile RES E-2-hexenal which is, for example, 
generated by herbivory, wounding and heat. Earlier research has shown that E-2-hexenal 
increases g-aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels and this prompted us to ask the question how these 
two molecules help the plant in dealing with stress. We will use genetic tools to manipulate E-2-
hexenal and GABA levels in the model plant Arabidopsis and use various read-outs to determine 
this. For this research a variety of techniques will be used, including (transient) transgenesis, 
LC/MS analyses and disease bioassays. 
Requirements 
Candidates must hold a Master's degree (or equivalent) in Molecular Biology or Biochemistry, 
have good communication skills, be able to work in a team and be highly motivated to conduct 
fundamental scientific research. 
Further information 
Information about the vacancies can be obtained from: 
Dr. Robert C. Schuurink, Tel: +31 (0)20 525 7933 or E-mail: r.c.schuurink@uva.nl 
Dr. Merijn R. Kant, Tel: +31 (0)20 525 7793 or E-mail: m.kant@uva.nl 
Appointment 
The appointment is full-time (38 hours a week) for a total of four years: an initial period of 
eighteen months, followed by a further two and a half years subject to a positive appraisal. It is 
expected to result in a PhD thesis. The gross monthly salary is fixed in accordance with the Dutch 
University regulations for academic personnel and ranges from ¤ 2.042 in the first year to a 
maximum of ¤ 2.612 in the fourth year. 
Job application 
Applications should include a letter of motivation, a curriculum vitae, and the names and contact 
information of three referees. Please indicate the position to which you are applying and quote 
the corresponding vacancy number in the subject line. Applications may be emailed 
to application-science@uva.nl, attn.: K. Tensen, Personnel Department, Faculty of Science, 
University of Amsterdam. Closing date: 14 March 2009 
 
University of Amsterdam 
The Universiteit van Amsterdam (UvA) is a university with an internationally acclaimed profile, 
located at the heart of the Dutch capital. As well as a world centre for business and research, 
Amsterdam is a hub of cultural and media activities. The Universiteit van Amsterdam is a member 
of the League of European Research Universities. 
The Faculty of Science at the UvA is one of Europe's foremost institutions of higher education 
and research in its chosen fields of specialization. It plays an active role in international science 
networks and collaborates with universities and industry. The Faculty has approximately 2,000 
students and 1,500 staff members spread over four departments and ten research institutes. 
Each institute has its own research programme, a substantial part of which is externally funded by 
the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research (NWO), the Dutch government, the EU and 
various private enterprises. 
In 2010, the Faculty will relocate to the Science Park Amsterdam. Ambitious building projects are 
paving the way for this relocation. The move will make the Park one of the largest centres of 
academic research in the Netherlands.
