Two postdoctoral positions are available in the Department of Biological Sciences at the 
University of North Texas, which is located in Denton near Dallas, Texas.
 
Position 1 (Requisition #090681):  Postdoctoral position in Plant –Insect 
Interaction
 
University of North Texas is seeking a full time postdoctoral research associate 
to study plant defense response. The research emphasis will be on studying 
Arabidopsis defense responses to the green peach aphid. We seek candidates 
with a Ph.D. in molecular biology, entomology or a related field.  Applicants 
should have expertise in plant molecular biology.  Candidates with expertise 
working with aphids are preferred. The successful candidate must be able to 
design and conduct independent experiments. Excellent oral and written 
communication skills and the ability to work well in a team-based/collaborative 
research atmosphere are essential.  The Postdoctoral Research Associate will 
work under the direction of Dr. Jyoti Shah in the Department of Biological 
Sciences.
 
Position 2 (Requisition #090679):  Postdoctoral position in Plant 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
 
University of North Texas is seeking a full time postdoctoral research associate 
to study oxylipin metabolism in plants.  The research emphasis will be on 
studying Arabidopsis genes involved in oxidized lipid metabolism and their 
contribution to oxylipins in plant stress response. We seek candidates with a 
Ph.D. in biochemistry and/or molecular biology or a related field.  Applicants 
should have expertise in plant molecular biology.  Candidates with expertise 
working with lipids are preferred. The successful candidate must be able to 
design and conduct independent experiments. Excellent oral and written 
communication skills and the ability to work well in a team-based/collaborative 
research atmosphere are essential.  The Postdoctoral Research Associate will 
work under the direction of Dr. Jyoti Shah in the Department of Biological 
Sciences.
 
For both positions (Requisition # 090681 and 090679) complete 
applications must be submitted online athttps://jobs.unt.edu.  A complete 
application must consist of 1) a cover letter detailing your qualifications and how 
they relate to the advertised position, 2) a professional resume, 3) names and 
contact information for three references. Screening of application begins July 
15  2009, and will continue until the positions are filled. 
 
University of North Texas is an equal opportunity employer and actively seeks 
diversity among its employees.

