Faculty Position in Microbial Biology 
Department of Biology, University of Utah 

The Department of Biology at the University of Utah invites applications for 
a tenure track faculty position in Microbial Biology. We encourage 
applicants who are investigating any area of microbial biology, including 
eukaryotic microbes and microbial interactions with higher organisms. For an 
overview of the department please visit http://www.biology.utah.edu/. 
Applicants should submit in PDF format a curriculum vita, up to 5 
representative publications, descriptions of current and future research 
interests 
(up to two pages each), statement of teaching interests, and the names of 
three referees to microsearch@biology.utah.edu. Please also arrange for 
three letters of reference to be sent directly to the Microbial Biology 
Search Committee, Department of Biology, University of Utah, 257 South 1400 
East, Rm. 201, Salt Lake City, UT 84112-0840, USA. 

Review of applications will begin on January 15, 2011 and continue until the 
position is filled. The University of Utah values candidates who have 
experience working in settings with students from diverse backgrounds, and 
possess a strong commitment to improving access to higher education for 
historically underrepresented students. The University of Utah is fully 
committed to affirmative action and to its policies of nondiscrimination and 
equal opportunity in all programs, activities, and employment. Employment 
decisions are made without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, age, 
status as a person with a disability, religion, sexual orientation, gender 
identity or expression, and status as a protected veteran. The University 
seeks to provide equal access for people with disabilities. Reasonable prior 
notice is needed to arrange accommodations. Evidence of practices not 
consistent with these policies should be reported to: Director, Office of 
Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action, (801) 581- 
365 (V/TDD). 
