Postdoctoral Research Associate position in Plant Molecular and Cell Biology 
 
 
 
The University of Stavanger invites applications for a two-year Postdoctoral 
Research Associate position in Plant Molecular and Cell Biology at The Centre 
for Organelle Research, Faculty of Science and Technology, beginning April 1, 
2008. 
 
 
 
Project: Targeting Studies and Functional Analyses of Novel Plant Peroxisomal 
Proteins 
 
The targeting signals of some plant peroxisomal matrix proteins have been 
characterized, but these are currently insufficient to deduce mathematical 
models to predict novel matrix proteins from genome sequences with high 
accuracy. Site-directed mutagenesis in combination with in vivo subcellular 
targeting studies of EYFP fusion proteins will be applied to define more 
precise targeting patterns. In addition, our knowledge on the physiological 
functions of most novel enzymes identified only recently by proteomics is 
restricted to their annotation. Heterologous gene overexpression, yeast 
complementation studies, and phenotypic characterization of Arabidopsis 
T-DNA insertion lines will be instrumental in unraveling novel metabolic 
networks and regulatory mechanisms of plant peroxisomes. 
 
 
 
The Reumann laboratory belongs to the Centre for Organelle Research (CORE), 
which houses state-of-the-art equipment including a grid confocal inverted 
microscope. The new laboratory represents a highly active and stimulating 
environment and encourages cross-disciplinary and collaborative research. 
 
The project is technically and intellectually demanding and requires 
therefore postdoctoral researchers with experience in diverse aspects of 
plant physiology, molecular and cell biology, and preferably bioinformatics 
tools (e.g., PERL, MySQL). 
 
 
 
Key references: 
 
Sigrun Reumann et al. (2007) Proteome analysis of Arabidopsis leaf 
peroxisomes reveals novel targeting peptides, metabolic pathways, and defense 
mechanisms. Plant Cell (October issue) 
 
Travis Orth, Sigrun Reumann, Xinxhun Zhang, Jilian Fan, Dirk Wenzel, Sheng 
Quan, Jianping Hu (2007) The PEROXIN11 protein family controls peroxisome 
proliferation in Arabidopsis. Plant Cell 19, 333-350 
 
Sigrun Reumann (2004) Specification of the peroxisome targeting signals type 
1 and type 2 of plant peroxisomes by bioinformatics analyses. Plant Physiol. 
135: 783-800 
 
Sigrun Reumann, Changle Ma, Stefan Lemke, and Lavanya Babujee (2004). 
AraPerox. A database of putative Arabidopsis proteins from plant peroxisomes. 
Plant Physiol. 136: 2587-2608 
 
 
 
The applications will be assessed in relation to research experience and 
track record. In addition, potential candidates will be invited to an 
interview. 
 
 
 
It is assumed that the appointee will work full time on the project and that 
s/he will participate in the scholarly circles at the faculty and the 
university. 
 
 
 
The position is salaried according to the State Salary Code, l.pl 17.510, 
code 1352, ltr 54 - 58, of NOK 394.900 - 424.000 per annum. In special cases 
higher salaries may apply. 
 
 
 
The position provides for automatic membership in the Norwegian Public 
Service Pension Fund, which guarantees favorable retirement benefits. Members 
may also apply for home investment loans at favorable interest rates. 
 
 
 
Further information about the position can be obtained from Professor Sigrun 
Reumann, e-mail sreuman@gwdg.de <mailto:sreuman@gwdg.de> 
 
 
 
The application must contain the following documents and material in three 
copies: 
 
 
 
·        Cover letter including previous research experience 
 
·        CV 
 
·        the form Utvidet søkerskjema (Information to be made available to 
the applicants) 
 
·        certificates/diplomas 
 
·        references 
 
·        list of publications 
 
·        up to 15 publications and other documentation that the applicant 
considers relevant 
 
 
 
and be addressed to: 
 
University of Stavanger 
 
Faculty of Science and Technology 
 
v/Elisabeth Stornes Fiskå 
 
N-4036 Stavanger 
 
 
 
It is preferable that the application documents are sent by e-mail to 
elisabeth.s.fiska@uis.no <mailto:elisabeth.s.fiska@uis.no> 
 
 
 
The application should be marked st.id 8200015. 
 
 
 
Closing date for applications is January 6, 2008.
