
PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATORS, DUNDEE, SCOTLAND
The 5* research-rated School of Life Sciences at Dundee University comprises 70 Research Groups and 700 staff 
from 51 countries and was recently rated the best European Research Institute in which to work ("The Scientist", 
November 7th 2005). Research papers published by University of Dundee scientists in the fields of Biology, 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology were more highly cited over the past 10 years than any other University in 
Europe. Current research grants are £24 million p.a.
The Division of Environmental and Applied Biology is undergoing restructuring and expansion. We are therefore 
inviting applications for Principal Investigators to establish and lead research groups under this general 
subject area, as well as individuals who may be interested in moving established groups to Dundee. An ability to 
interact with other members of the Division would be an advantage, as well as with other research groups and 
technical services within the School of Life Sciences.
The Division has a close association with the Division of Mathematics and the nearby Scottish Crop Research 
Institute where our plant biology research is based. The research programmes of other members of the Division 
and other Principal Investigators in the School of Life Sciences may be viewed at http://www.dundee.ac.uk/biocentre/SLSBOverview.htm 
We are particularly interested in individuals who are able to apply the latest molecular, biochemical and 
chemical techniques to biological problems of environmental significance. The School of Life Sciences has 
unrivaled facilities in a range of technologies including proteomics, bioinformatics, light and electron microscopy.
Applicants should have an outstanding record of research at postdoctoral level or higher, and should include a 
brief statement of research accomplishments plus future research plans.
Applications in the form of a CV and covering letter (4 copies of each), including the names and addresses of 3 
referees, should be sent to Mrs Janette Cordiner, Administrator, School of Life Sciences, MSI/WTB Complex, 
University of Dundee, DD1 5EH, e-mail: j.v.brown@dundee.ac.uk 
Please quote Reference No. LS/1218/www.


Gordon Simpson
Dundee University & SCRI
SCRI
Invergowrie
Dundee
Scotland

g.g.simpson@dundee.ac.uk
Direct Dial: 44 1382 568572
Fax: 44 1382 562426
http://www.dundee.ac.uk/biocentre/SLSBDIV7gs.htm

