UNIVERSITY OF DUNDEE

DIVISION OF PLANT SCIENCES
COLLEGE OF LIFE SCIENCES

PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATORS

We invite applications from outstanding candidates, at any stage in
their career, for Principal Investigator positions in the newly-formed
Division of Plant Sciences at Dundee University. Candidates working in
any area of plant science will be considered, but we particularly
welcome applications from those taking molecular, genetic and
biochemical approaches to explore and explain important features of
plant biology.

This is an excellent opportunity for plant scientists who already have,
or who would apply for, a research fellowship to establish their
laboratory in a new and dynamic research division. Successful candidates
will benefit from advantageous contractual arrangements: research
fellows may receive up to two years of additional salary support beyond
the tenure of their fellowship.

Dundee combines quality of life with quality of science and offers:

• Collaboration with a wider community of plant scientists through
co-location of the Plant Sciences Division at the Scottish Crop Research
Institute (SCRI), the largest plant and crop research institute in
Scotland.

• State-of-the-art facilities in plant growth, cell biology,
microscopy, transcriptomics, genomics, proteomics, metabolomics and
other core facilities in the College of Life Sciences and at SCRI.

• A vibrant and collegiate research environment.

• A highly successful PhD programme.

A few facts about The College of Life Sciences at Dundee:

• Over 760 research and support staff from 53 countries and an annual
research turnover of more than £25 million.

• The top University in Europe in ‘Biology and Biochemistry’ and 2nd in
Europe in ‘Molecular Biology and Genetics’ according to citations per
paper over the last 10 years (Thomson Scientific, Philadelphia).

• Named ‘the best place to work in Europe’ in a poll of scientists
conducted by The Scientist magazine in 2003 and 2004.

• Achieved the highest possible ‘5-star’ rating in the most recent UK
Research Assessment Exercise.

• Prof. David Baulcombe is the Plant Sciences member of the College
Scientific Advisory Committee


Please visit our web site www.lifesci.dundee.ac.uk/ps to learn more
about us.

Applications in the form of a CV, an outline of past achievements and
future research plans together with a covering letter should be sent to
HR-LifeSciences@dundee.ac.uk quoting LS/2203.  Alternatively, please
send 2 copies of your application to Human Resources, College of Life
Sciences, MSI/WTB/JBC Complex, University of Dundee, DD1 5EH.

Closing Date:  31 August 2008

The University of Dundee is committed to equal opportunities and
welcomes applications from all sections of the community.

The University of Dundee is a registered Scottish charity, No:
SCO15096
