
Two BBSRC Targeted Priority PhD studentships in Crop Science are available at 
Dundee University. These Prize studentships will carry an enhanced stipend of 
£15,000 per annum for exceptional applicants.

Cereal Inflorescence Architecture. Dr. Gordon Simpson (g.g.simpson@dundee.ac.uk)
Cereals like rice, maize, wheat and barley are essential for world food 
security. Cereal yield potential is limited by the number of florets produced on 
an inflorescence. Despite this fundamental importance of inflorescence 
development, we know relatively little about the genes that control this 
development in cereals. The aim of this research programme will be to 
genetically and phenotypically characterize barley mutants with aberrant 
inflorescences in order to begin to identify the genes involved. 

Cereal Lignin. Dr Claire Halpin (c.halpin@dundee.ac.uk)
Barley orange lemma mutants look similar to maize brown-midrib mutants that are 
known to be defective in lignin biosynthesis. This studentship aims to 
characterise the barley mutants at cell biological, biochemical and molecular 
levels to determine whether they have altered lignin and, if so, whether the 
change in cell wall properties improves the digestibility of the plant material. 
Biochemical and molecular analyses will evaluate the activity and expression of 
enzymes/genes involved in lignin biosynthesis and lignin content/composition and 
digestibility assays will be performed. We will also use a structured barley 
TILLING population to identify new mutants in lignin genes. This work will 
increase out understanding of lignin biosynthesis in monocots which differs in 
several respects from that of dicots.

Training and Resources Dundee University School of Life Sciences 
(http://www.dundee.ac.uk/biocentre/) was voted the best place to work in Europe 
by readers of The Scientist magazine in 2004 and 2005 and the School scored the 
highest possible 5* in the most recent research assessment exercise. Dundee 
University plant science faculty have their research labs at the Scottish Crop 
Research Institute, which has state-of-the-art plant growth facilities and is a 
world leader in cereal genomics research. Students will join an established PhD 
programme. Training in working with cereals, molecular genetics, molecular 
biology, in situ hybridisation and scanning electron microscopy will be given.

Dundee Culturally vibrant, with easy access to other Scottish cities and the 
Highlands, Dundee offers one of the strongest possible combinations of quality 
of science with quality of life. 

Applications
These studentships are open to British citizens and EU citizens who have been 
resident in the UK for the last three years. To apply, please send a full CV, 
including a summary of your scientific interests and research experience, 
directly to the supervisors at the e-mail addresses given above. 


Gordon Simpson
Dundee University & SCRI
SCRI
Invergowrie
Dundee
Scotland

g.g.simpson@dundee.ac.uk
Direct Dial: 44 1382 568572
Fax: 44 1382 562426
http://www.dundee.ac.uk/biocentre/SLSBDIV7gs.htm



