Molecular genetics of Arabidopsis lignin biosynthesis 
 
Division of Plant Sciences, College of Life Sciences, University of 
Dundee, Scotland. 
 
Job Reference:  LS/2554 
Closing Date:  31st March 2009 
 
2 Postdoctoral Research Assistants Grade 7 (£28,839 - £35,469) 
 
Two post-doc positions are available in the newly formed Plant Sciences 
Division at Dundee University, Scotland. 
 
The positions are funded through a programme grant (US $2 million) from 
the Global Climate and Energy Project (GCEP), Stanford, USA, that also 
provides support for two technicians to join the team. The aim of the 
project is to use Arabidopsis as a model to better understand how to 
optimize the saccharification yield of plant lignocellulose for biofuel 
production. The research involves novel screens to identify mutants that 
affect lignin biosynthesis. The project is a collaboration between the 
neighbouring labs of Prof. Claire Halpin and Dr Gordon Simpson 
(University of Dundee). 
 
Prof. Claire Halpin’s lab is extremely well supported, with additional 
recent funding from the EU and programme grants from the BBSRC. 
Therefore, the successful applicants will join a vibrant group of 
researchers focused on plant biofuels. 
 
Dundee University Plant Science Faculty have their research labs at the 
nearby Scottish Crop Research Institute (SCRI), and benefit from 
expertise and state-of-the art resources at both organizations. The 
College of Life Sciences has a particularly vibrant post-doc association 
and in recent years has regularly been voted one of the best places to 
work in Europe by readers of The Scientist magazine. Located in a 
beautiful part of Scotland, Dundee combines quality of life with quality 
of science. 
 
An interest in lignin and previous experience of Arabidopsis molecular 
genetics would be an advantage. 
 
Applications in the form of a CV and covering letter, including the 
names and addresses of 3 referees, should be sent to email address 
quoting LS/2554. Alternatively, please send 2 hard copies of your CV and 
covering letter to Human Resources, College of Life Sciences, 
MSI/WTB/JBC Complex, University of Dundee, DD1 5EH. 
 
Applicants will only be contacted if invited for interview. 
 
The University of Dundee is committed to equal opportunities and 
welcomes applications from all sections of the community. 
 
The University of Dundee is a registered Scottish charity, No: SCO15096. 
 
www.dundee.ac.uk/jobs 
 

