2 x Postdoctoral Research Assistants 
College of Life Sciences, Dundee University 
 
Alternative Polyadenylation: RNA Biology and Bioinformatics 
 
Grade 7 (Starting Salary £28,839 – £31,513 pa) 
An exciting opportunity to join a £1million BBSRC funded project that 
will combine cutting-edge technology for DNA sequencing and 
computational analysis with molecular genetics to answer fundamental 
questions in gene regulation. 
We have discovered genetically independent regulators of alternative 
polyadenylation while studying Arabidopsis flower development. Although 
this mode of gene regulation is common in eukaryotes, it is surprisingly 
poorly understood. This project will dissect the mechanisms and roles of 
alternative polyadenylation. Our programme addresses the molecular 
mechanisms involved and uses next generation sequencing to reveal and 
quantify genome-wide shifts in poly(A) site selection. 
The project fuses the extensive experience of Dr Gordon Simpson in 
Arabidopsis RNA biology, who will lead the molecular aspects of the 
work, with the computational skills of Prof Geoff Barton, who will lead 
the bioinformatics analysis. The Barton group has long-standing 
expertise in developing computational techniques that are widely applied 
and has had recent successful experience in studying RNA processing and 
expression by analysis of next generation sequencing data. The 
integrated nature of this programme offers the opportunity for the 
molecular and bioinformatics analyses to be iteratively validated and 
refined. 
The first post (LS/2917) requires a Molecular Biologist and previous 
experience with the molecular analysis of either RNA processing or 
genetic analysis of Arabidopsis would be an advantage. 
The second post (LS/2918) requires an individual with strong data 
analysis and software development expertise. These skills may have been 
gained in bioinformatics, or in related scientific fields such as 
Physics. 
Dundee is a centre of excellence in life sciences research and combines 
quality of life with quality of science. Consistently topping polls in 
The Scientist magazine of best places to work, staff of more than 50 
different nationalities create a vibrant international working 
environment, with a particularly active Post-Doc Association. 
Gordon Simpson’s lab web site: 
www.lifesci.dundee.ac.uk/groups/gordon_simpson/ 
Geoff Barton’s lab web site: www.compbio.dundee.ac.uk/ 
Both positions are full-time for 3 years. 
HOW TO APPLY: Applications in the form of a CV and covering letter, 
including the names and addresses of 3 referees and a list of 
publications, should be sent to email address ( 
http://mini.dundee.ac.uk/locate/?2009733650hu250711 ) . 
Alternatively, please send 2 hard copies of your CV and covering letter 
to Human Resources, College of Life Sciences, MSI/WTB/JBC Complex, 
University of Dundee, DD1 5EH. Applicants will only be contacted if 
invited for interview. The University of Dundee is committed to equal 
opportunities and welcomes applications from all sections of the 
community. The University of Dundee is a Scottish Registered Charity, 
No. SC015096 
How to apply: 
Apply by Curriculum Vitae (CV) and covering letter. 
You must also return the Supplementary Information Forms ( 
http://www.dundee.ac.uk/hr/recruitment/_lib/docs/job_supplementary_information_form.pdf 
) (PDF) 36KB with your application. 
Please remember to quote the job reference. 
Please return your application to: (use postal or email address from 
the advert itself above) 
About: 
The University of Dundee and the City of Dundee ( 
http://www.dundee.ac.uk/main/about.htm ) 
 
Gordon Simpson 
Principal Investigator 
 
Division of Plant Sciences 
College of Life Sciences 
University of Dundee 
Scotland 
 
g.g.simpson@dundee.ac.uk 
Direct Dial:  44 1382 568572 
http://www.lifesci.dundee.ac.uk/groups/gordon_simpson/ 
 

