Postdoctoral Research Fellow In Plant Molecular Biology- Floral Transition 

Expressions of interest are sought to fill postdoctoral position within the Plant Molecular Biology 
and Biotechnology group, at the Melbourne School of Land and Environment at The University of 
Melbourne, highest ranked Research University in Australia. The University of Melbourne is 
consistently ranked among the leading universities in the world, with its international peers 
placing it in the top 20 worldwide, and employers placing it in the top 10. 

The Melbourne laboratory, headed jointly by Professor Prem Bhalla and Professor Mohan B Singh who 
are recognised as a international leaders in aspects of plant molecular biology. Accomplishments 
include the first (i) to identify gene controlling male fertility in Arabidopsis (ii) to generate 
hypoallergenic rye grass plants through genetic engineering (iii) to discover male gamete specific 
transcription and transcriptional regulation in flowering plants (iv) to generate hypoallergenic 
forms of major grass pollen allergens for allergy vaccination (vi) to clone and undertake synthetic 
peptide and recombinant DNA based epitope mapping of grass pollen allergens (vii) granting of 
several international patents covering diagnostic and therapeutic applications of recombinant 
proteins and (viii) cloning and patenting of flowering plant male gamete specific promoter 
sequences. 

We are interested in recruiting highly motivated individuals with a desire to succeed and 
contribute to the internationally competitive research activities of the laboratory focussing 
on molecular mechanisms of differentiation and cell specific gene regulation during floral 
transition and reproductive differentiation in soybean. 

Key Essential Selection Criteria include - A PhD in molecular biology with demonstrated 
commitment to a high level of personal performance and the provision of quality outcomes as 
evident by publications in highly rated journals. Practical experience in molecular biology 
techniques, particularly: construction and screening of gene libraries, construction of 
promoter fusions and expression vectors, protocols involved in analysis of Protein-DNA and 
Protein-Protein interactions, in situ hybridisation etc. 

Salary: $72,503 p.a. - $77,825 p.a. (Research Fellow, Level A 6) plus employer superannuation 
contributions of 9 percent, salary packaging options and staff training and development 
opportunities. 

Further contact: Professor Prem L Bhalla, tel. +61 3 8344 9651, email premlb@unimelb.edu.au 
<mailto:premlb@unimelb.edu.au> or Professor Mohan B Singh, tel. +61 3 8344 5051, email 
mohan@unimelb.edu.a 



Postdoctoral Research Fellow In Plant Biotechnology- Plant Genetic Transformation 

Expressions of interest are sought to fill postdoctoral position within the Plant 
Molecular Biology and Biotechnology group, at the Melbourne School of Land and Environment 
at The University of Melbourne, highest ranked Research University in Australia. 
The University of Melbourne is consistently ranked among the leading universities in the 
world, with its international peers placing it in the top 20 worldwide, and employers 
placing it in the top 10. 

The Melbourne laboratory, headed jointly by Professor Prem Bhalla and Professor Mohan B Singh 
who are recognised as a international leaders in aspects of plant molecular biology. 
Accomplishments include the first (i) to identify gene controlling male fertility in 
Arabidopsis (ii) to generate hypoallergenic rye grass plants through genetic engineering (iii) 
to discover male gamete specific transcription and transcriptional regulation in 
flowering plants (iv) to generate hypoallergenic forms of major grass pollen allergens for 
allergy vaccination (vi) to clone and undertake synthetic peptide and recombinant DNA based 
epitope mapping of grass pollen allergens (vii) granting of several international patents 
covering diagnostic and therapeutic applications of recombinant proteins and (viii) cloning 
and patenting of flowering plant male gamete specific promoter sequences. 

We are interested in recruiting highly motivated individuals with a desire to succeed and 
contribute to the internationally competitive research activities of the laboratory focussing 
on genetic transformation of crop plants for enhancing tolerance to biotic and abiotic stress 
conditions. 

Key Essential Selection Criteria include - A PhD in Plant biotechnology with demonstrated 
experience in commitment to a high level of personal performance and the provision of quality 
outcomes as evident by publications in highly rated journals. Practical experience in 
molecular biology techniques related to generation and molecular analysis of transgenic 
crop plants such as preparation of gene constructs, Agrobacterium and biolistics based 
plant transformation, PCR and gel blot analysis skills etc. 

Salary: $72,503 p.a. - $77,825 p.a. (Research Fellow, Level A 6) plus employer superannuation 
contributions of 9 percent, salary packaging options and staff training and development 
opportunities. 

Further contact: Professor Prem L Bhalla, tel. +61 3 8344 9651, email premlb@unimelb.edu.au 
<mailto:premlb@unimelb.edu.au> or Professor Mohan B Singh, tel. +61 3 8344 5051, email 
mohan@unimelb.edu.au 




Postdoctoral Research Fellow In Plant Male Germ Line Epigenetics 

Expressions of interest are sought to fill postdoctoral position within the Plant Molecular 
Biology and Biotechnology group, at the Melbourne School of Land and Environment at The 
University of Melbourne, highest ranked Research University in Australia. The University of 
Melbourne is consistently ranked among the leading universities in the world, with its 
international peers placing it in the top 20 worldwide, and employers placing it in the 
top 10. The Melbourne laboratory, headed jointly by Professor Prem Bhalla and Professor 
Mohan B Singh who are recognised as a international leaders in aspects of plant molecular 
biology. Accomplishments include the first (i) to identify gene controlling male fertility 
in Arabidopsis (ii) to generate hypoallergenic rye grass plants through genetic 
engineering (iii) to discover male gamete specific transcription and transcriptional 
regulation in flowering plants (iv) to generate hypoallergenic forms of major grass pollen 
allergens for allergy vaccination (vi) to clone and undertake synthetic peptide and 
recombinant DNA based epitope mapping of grass pollen allergens (vii) granting of several 
international patents covering diagnostic and therapeutic applications of recombinant 
proteins and (viii) cloning and patenting of flowering plant male gamete specific promoter 
sequences. 

We are interested in recruiting highly motivated individuals with a desire to succeed 
and contribute to the internationally competitive research activities of the laboratory 
focussing on genome-wide epigenetic modifications during male germ line initiation and 
differentiation in flowering plants. 

Key Essential Selection Criteria include -A PhD in molecular biology with demonstrated 
commitment to a high level of personal performance and the provision of quality outcomes 
as evident by publications in highly rated journals. Practical experience in molecular 
biology techniques, particularly: construction of promoter fusions and expression vectors, 
bioinformatics, protocols involved in analysis of Protein-DNA, in situ hybridisation, 
immunolocalization etc. 

Salary: $72,503 p.a. - $77,825 p.a. (Research Fellow, Level A 6) plus employer 
superannuation contributions of 9 percent, salary packaging options and staff training 
and development opportunities. 

Further contact: Professor Prem L Bhalla, tel. +61 3 8344 9651, email premlb@unimelb.edu.au 
<mailto:premlb@unimelb.edu.au> or Professor Mohan B Singh, 
tel. +61 3 8344 5051, email mohan@unimelb.edu.au 
