POST DOCTORAL POSITIONS IN PLANT MOLECULAR BIOLOGY IN THE 
UNIVERSITY OF 
MELBOURNE AUSTRALIA 
 
 
 
Expressions of interest are sought to fill postdoctoral positions within the 
Plant Molecular Biology and Biotechnology group, at the Melbourne School of 
Land and Environment at The University of Melbourne, highest ranked Research 
University in Australia.   We are interested in recruiting highly motivated 
individuals with a desire to succeed and contribute to the internationally 
competitive research activities of the laboratory focussing on molecular 
mechanisms of differentiation and cell specific gene regulation during 
meristem development, floral transition and reproductive differentiation. A 
brief description of research projects is provided below. 
 
MicroRNAs and Epigenetic Regulation of Meristem Development 
 
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that regulate expression of 
many genes.  We have recently discovered a network of shoot apical meristem 
specific miRNAs. These include novel plant miRNAs being reported for the 
first time.  The postdoctoral research project will involve investigation of 
role of these novel miRNAs in meristem development and floral transition 
using computational and experimental tools.  The experimental approach will 
include expression profiling of individual miRNAs through gel blots, 
microarrays, in situ localizations combined with gain-and loss-of-function 
studies in transgenic plants. 
 
Molecular Control of Stem Cell Maintenance in Plants 
 
Shoot apical meristems (SAMs) provide niches for self-sustaining groups of 
stem cells that play a critical role in plant development being founder 
cells of all aerial plant parts.  Maintenance of these stem cells is thus 
essential for repetitive organ initiation throughout plant lifecycle.  Using 
high throughput gene expression profiling technologies we have identified 
subset of novel genes that are differentially expressed in shoot apical 
meristem of pea and soybeans.  The postdoctoral appointee will participate 
in a project addressing developmental role of these genes.  The approaches 
will include laser capture microdissection, mutant analyses, in situ 
hybridisations, and reporter gene expression and gain-and loss-of-function 
studies in transgenic plants. 
 
Male Germ Line Development and Fertilization in Flowering Plants 
 
Unlike animals where germ line cells diverge from somatic cells during early 
embryo development the plant germ lineages initiate late in development at 
flowering stage.  The male germline in plants begins with an asymmetric 
division, after which one of the resulting cells, the generative cell, 
divides symmetrically to produce two sperm cells. Research from our 
laboratory has revealed that the male germ line cells show transcriptional 
repertoire that is highly divergent from other reproductive and somatic 
cells.  The post-doctoral appointee will participate in a project focusing 
on role of cell specific genes and nature of associated regulatory 
mechanisms. Potential approaches include Potential approaches include 
DNA-protein interaction analyses, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChiP), gene 
knockout in transgenic plants, proteome and methylome analysis, 
live imaging of fertilization events. 
 
Applicants should possess a PhD, together with relevant experience in one or 
more fields of functional genomics, molecular genetics and cell biology and 
be able to provide evidence of proven research productivity in the form of 
publications in refereed journals. Candidates should also be experienced in 
general molecular biology techniques and ideally have expertise in one or 
more of following techniques/approaches; protein-DNA interactions, 
protein-protein interactions, ChIP, protein biochemistry and bioinformatics. 
 
The positions are being offered at Research Fellow ( Level A) position with 
salary range of $63,451-$68,109 p.a.  Candidates with exceptional 
achievements can be considered for appointment at a higher salary level. 
Applications close on 17 th October 2008.  For further details contact: 
Professor Prem L Bhalla, tel. +61 3 8344 9651, email premlb@unimelb.edu.au 
or Professor Mohan B Singh, tel. +61 3 8344 5051, email mohan@unimelb.edu.au
