Postdoctoral Position Available in Columbus, Ohio, USA

A post-doctoral researcher position is available at The Ohio State University in the Department of 
Plant Cellular and Molecular Biology, in conjunction with the Department of Molecular Genetics. 
The position will be part of a new plant molecular genetics laboratory studying the epigenetic 
regulation of transposable elements in Arabidopsis thaliana. The position will use fluorescence 
microscopy, molecular genetics and genome-wide approaches to explore the epigenetic regulation of 
the plant genome. For research details, please see:
http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/pcmb/osu_pcmb/people_faculty_slotkinRKeith.php

The position will both conduct research with the goal of publication, as well as mentor and advise
students in the laboratory. This is a basic science position, and the applicants should have a 
strong background in plant cellular and molecular biology. A PhD in Genetics, Molecular Biology, 
Cell Biology, Plant Biology or related field is required. Additional opportunities for teaching and
professional development are available if desired. The position is located in a modern, well-
equipped facility at The Ohio State University in Columbus, Ohio and offers competitive salary and 
benefits with the opportunity for professional growth and advancement. Salary will be commensurate 
with qualifications. The successful candidate is expected to demonstrate independence and 
creativity. Good oral and written skills and a strong publication record in international refereed 
scientific journals are required. We seek highly motivated researchers with demonstrated outstanding
ability and accomplishment. For a complete position description and application instructions please 
visit www.jobsatosu.com and search by requisition number 348901. This position will accept 
applications via this website, www.jobsatosu.com, until the position is filled. Questions and 
letters of intent should be addressed to Slotkin.2@osu.edu. To build a diverse workforce Ohio State
encourages applications from minorities, veterans, women and individuals with disabilities. Flexible
work options available. EEO/AA Employer 
