PostDoctoral Researcher Position Available 
The Epigenetic Regulation of Transposable Elements 
The Ohio State University 
Columbus, OH, USA 

A post-doctoral researcher position is available at The Ohio State 
University in the Department of Molecular Genetics. The position will be 
part of a new plant molecular genetics laboratory studying the epigenetic 
regulation of transposable elements in Arabidopsis thaliana. The position 
will use fluorescence microscopy, molecular genetics and genome-wide 
approaches to explore the epigenetic regulation of the plant genome. For 
research details, please see: 

http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/pcmb/osu_pcmb/people_faculty_slotkinRKeith.php 

The position will both conduct research with the goal of publication, as 
well as mentor and advise students in the laboratory. This is a basic 
science project, and the applicants should have a strong background in plant 
cellular and molecular biology. A Ph.D. in molecular biology or related 
field and previous work in plant biology is required. Good oral and written 
skills and a strong publication record in refereed journals are also 
required, as well as a strong understanding of genetics and experience in 
greenhouse protocols. Experience with fluorescent microscopy, epigenetic 
regulation, or transposable elements are desired. 

Additional opportunities for teaching and professional development are 
available if desired. The position is located in a modern, well-equipped 
facility at The Ohio State University in Columbus, Ohio and offers 
competitive salary and benefits with the opportunity for professional growth 
and advancement. The successful candidate is expected to demonstrate 
independence and creativity. Good oral and written skills and a strong 
publication record in refereed journals are required. We seek highly 
motivated researchers with demonstrated outstanding ability and 
accomplishment. Salary will be commensurate with qualifications. 

Please apply to R. Keith Slotkin (Slotkin.2@osu.edu) and/or use the 
following link to apply to the above position: http://jobs.osu.edu , using 
the requisition number 353809. To build a diverse workforce Ohio State 
encourages applications from minorities, veterans, women and individuals 
with disabilities. Flexible work options available. EEO/AA Employer 
