Postdoc positions in computational biology in Perth, Australia: 

RESEARCH ASSOCIATE/RESEARCH ASSISTANT PROFESSOR (REF: 3797) 
SYSTEMS BIOLOGIST 
CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE IN COMPUTATIONAL SYSTEMS BIOLOGY at THE UNIVERSITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA 

An outstanding opportunity to be involved in exciting epigenomics/genomics research projects in a world class 
research environment located in a city with exceptional quality of life 

¥ ¥	3 year appointment 
¥ ¥	Salary: Level A $77,328 p.a. 
¥ ¥	Salary range: Level B $81,400 - $96,663 p.a. 
¥ ¥	Closing date: Friday, 13 January 2012 

Applications are invited from a highly motivated scientist to work in a multi-disciplinary team environment on 
epigenomics/genomics research projects within both plant and animal systems. You will join a dedicated team of 
bioinformaticists/mathematicians/statisticians who analyse the genomic, epigenomic, transcriptomic, proteomic 
and metabolomic data produced by the ARC Centre of Excellence in Plant Energy Biology (CoE PEB) researchers. A 
wider aim of the CoE PEB will be to promote the understanding and uptake of modern systems orientated 
approaches within biotech research and industry in WA, both in plant and animal sciences. 

You will lead the integrative data analysis for key research projects that aim to answer fundamental unresolved 
questions in plants and animals concerning the regulation of genomic information by epigenetic mechanisms. 
Additionally, you will also lead the analysis and interpretation of a variety of high-throughput DNA sequencing 
experiments performed in the CoE PEB, including whole-genome profiling of DNA methylation, transcriptome, 
protein-DNA interactions, and chromatin modifications profiles. Applicants must have a PhD in computational 
biology, molecular biology or related discipline. Previous experience in genomics and the computational analysis 
of next-generation DNA sequencing data would be an advantage. 

The position will involve tight collaboration with CoE PEB researchers and close links to nearby computing 
centres such as iVEC@UWA and the Centre for Comparative Genomics based at Murdoch University. 

For further information regarding the position please contact Winthrop Professor Ryan Lister by email 
ryanlister@gmail.com. 


RESEARCH ASSOCIATE/RESEARCH ASSISTANT PROFESSOR (REF: 3825) 
(COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGIST) 
CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE IN COMPUTATIONAL SYSTEMS BIOLOGY at THE UNIVERSITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA 
  
An outstanding opportunity to be involved in exciting systems biology research projects in a world class 
research environment located in a city with exceptional quality of life. 

¥	2 year appointment 
¥	Salary: Level A $77,328 p.a. 
¥	Salary range: Level B $81,400 - $96,663 p.a. 
¥	Closing date: Friday, 20 January 2012 

Applications are invited from a highly motivated scientist to work in a multi-disciplinary team environment 
on research projects with a dedicated team of bioinformaticists/mathematicians/statisticians who analyse the 
genomic, epigenomic, transcriptomic, proteomic and metabolomic data produced by ARC Centre of Excellence in 
Plant Energy Biology researchers. The wider aim of the Centre is to promote the understanding and uptake of 
modern systems approaches within biotech research and industry in WA, both in plant and animal sciences. 

The successful applicant will lead the data analysis for key research projects that aim to answer fundamental 
unresolved questions in plant metabolism. The appointee will also lead the continuing development of the SUBA 
database (suba.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au) holding protein localisation data and its integration with databases of 
enzyme function in order to construct and analyse genome-wide compartmentalised models of plant metabolism. A 
PhD in computational biology, molecular biology, or related disciplines is essential, and past experience in 
the computational analysis of biological networks would be an advantage. The position will involve tight 
collaboration with Centre of Excellence Plant Energy Biology researchers and close links to nearby supercomputing 
centres such as iVEC@UWA and modelling groups at the University of Queensland. 

For further information regarding the position please contact by email, Professor Ian Small ian.small@uwa.edu.au 
or Winthrop Professor Harvey Millar harvey.millar@uwa.edu.au. 


Research Associate /Research Assistant PROFESSOR (REF: 3826) 
(SYSTEMS BIOLOGIST) 
CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE IN COMPUTATIONAL SYSTEMS BIOLOGY at THE UNIVERSITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA 

An outstanding opportunity to be involved in exciting genomics research projects in a world class research 
environment located in a city with exceptional quality of life. 

¥	2 year appointment 
¥	Salary: Level A $77,328 p.a. 
¥	Salary range: Level B $81,400 - $96,663 p.a. 
¥	Closing date: Friday, 20 January 2012 

Applications are invited from a highly motivated scientist to work in a multi-disciplinary team environment on 
genomics research projects with a dedicated team of bioinformaticists/mathematicians/statisticians who analyse 
the genomic, epigenomic, transcriptomic, proteomic and metabolomic data produced by ARC Centre of Excellence in 
Plant Energy Biology researchers. The wider aim of the Centre is to promote the understanding and uptake of 
modern systems approaches within biotech research and industry in WA, both in plant and animal sciences. 

The Research Associate will lead the data analysis for key research projects that aim to answer fundamental 
unresolved questions in plants concerning the regulation of gene expression via transcriptional and 
post-transcriptional mechanisms. The successful applicant will lead the analysis and interpretation of a variety 
of high-throughput RNA and DNA sequencing experiments performed in the Centre, including genome-wide profiling 
of transcript abundance, RNA processing events, Chip-Seq and RIP-Seq samples. A PhD in computational biology, 
molecular biology, or related disciplines is essential, and past experience in genomics and the computational 
analysis of next-generation RNA or DNA sequencing data would be an advantage. The position will involve tight 
collaboration with Centre of Excellent Plant Energy Biology researchers and close links to nearby supercomputing 
centres such as iVEC@UWA. 

For further information regarding the position please contact Professor Ian Small by email, ian.small@uwa.edu.au. 
