
[Arabidopsis] Job Posting


SEARCH EXTENDED
Assistant Professor of
Plant Ecological Genomics
School of Integrative Biology
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

The School of Integrative Biology and the Department of Plant Biology seek an outstanding early career scientist 
with a background in interdisciplinary research involving aspects of plant ecology, ecosystem biology, plant 
environmental physiology, genomics, and statistics and/or bioinformatics for a nine-month, tenure-track faculty 
position at the assistant professor level.  Candidates must have a Ph.D.  The ideal candidate will have extensive 
familiarity with plant ecology, the ability to develop and implement statistical protocols for complex data 
analysis, and experience with appropriate genomic and informatic tools to address ecosystem level issues.  This 
new faculty member is expected to develop an externally funded research program to investigate environmentally 
sensitive genes and processes that shape ecological interactions.  The School has a particular interest in 
interactive responses of plants to abiotic stresses with anthropogenic changes and has world-class facilities for 
research in this area.

The successful candidate will have the opportunity to be part of a dynamic and well-established life science faculty, 
as well as a broadly based genomics community forming around the Institute for Genomic Biology, housed in a new 
state-of-the art facility.  Teaching obligations include participation in appropriate graduate and undergraduate 
instruction, including introductory level biology as well as upper level offerings in ecological genomics and 
related topics.  The proposed starting date is January 2007, or negotiable after closing date; salary is 
commensurate with experience.

To ensure full consideration, applicants must submit a CV and statements of research and teaching interests and 
arrange for three letters of reference to be sent no later than September 15, 2006.  Applicants may be interviewed 
before the closing date; however, no hiring decision will be made until after the closing date.  Please send 
materials to the Ecological Genomics Search Committee, School of Integrative Biology, University of Illinois, 
286 Morrill Hall, 505 South Goodwin Ave., Urbana, IL  61801 (phone: 217/ 333-3044; fax: 217/ 244-1224; 
email: sib@life.uiuc.edu).

The University of Illinois is an Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer


University of Illinois
School of Integrative Biology
286 Morrill Hall
505 S. Goodwin Ave.
Urbana, IL  61801
telephone:  (217) 333-3044
fax:  (217) 244-1224
lj-smith@life.uiuc.edu

