Research Associate 
 

A postdoctoral research associate position is now available at the
University of Western Australia to study the molecular mode of action
of karrikins. Karrikins are a new family of plant growth regulators
discovered in smoke with potent germination-stimulating activity in
many species. We have established that both seed germination and
post-germinative light-dependent responses of Arabidopsis thaliana are
sensitive to karrikins, and have now identified karrikin response
mutants through several genetic screens. This is an exciting, emerging
research area which offers great opportunities for new discoveries and
career development. This position will involve mapping of karrikin
response mutants, reverse genetic analysis of karrikin-responsive
genes, and molecular/biochemical characterization of cloned
genes. Applicants should have a PhD in plant genetics, molecular
biology or related discipline. The appointee will carry out research
in the Smith laboratory but will also be part of a multi-disciplinary
team including chemists at UWA and plant ecologists at the Kings Park
Botanic Garden in Perth.

 

The ARC Centre of Excellence in Plant Energy Biology
(http://www.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/) is a collaborative,
internationally-diverse research community which undertakes research
in plant energy biology and related aspects of plant-environment
interactions, growth and development. The Centre has excellent
facilities for research focused on Arabidopsis including plant growth,
imaging, biochemistry and functional genomics. Perth is a vibrant city
offering high quality of life, a Mediterranean climate, and
outstanding outdoor recreation.

 

To apply please visit the UWA website
https://www.his.admin.uwa.edu.au/jobvacs/external/academic/doc/doc1527057.RTF
and for further information contact Steve Smith
ssmith@cyllene.uwa.edu.au

 

References

 

Flematti GR, Ghisalberti EL, Dixon KW, Trengove RD. (2004). A compound
from smoke that promotes seed germination. Science 305:977.

 

Nelson DC, Riseborough JA, Flematti GR, Stevens J, Ghisalberti EL,
Dixon KW, Smith SM. (2009) Karrikins discovered in smoke trigger
Arabidopsis seed germination by a mechanism requiring gibberellic acid
synthesis and light. Plant Physiol. 149: 863-73.

 

Chiwocha SDS, Dixon KW, Flematti GR, Ghisalberti EL, Merritt DJ,
Nelson DC, Riseborough JAM, Smith SM,  Stevens JC. (2009) Karrikins: A
new family of plant growth regulators in smoke. Plant Science 177: 252-256.
