*Post-doctoral and research technician positions* (2-3) are available to investigate the plant 
circadian clock in the new Division of Integrative Biosciences and Biotechnology at Pohang 
University of Science and Technology (POSTECH) in Pohang, South Korea. 
http://ibb.mpstation.net/m2/index3.html 
 
The successful applicants for these positions will be involved the establishment of a new 
laboratory in newly renovated research space with research opportunities to study post-
translational processes, in particular phosphorylation, controlling the circadian system in 
Arabidopsis. There will also be the opportunity to initiate new genetic screens probing into the 
fundamental properties of the circadian clock. The lab will be housed in a building sharing growth 
facilities and other resources with excellent, well-established plant molecular groups at 
POSTECH, along with newly established labs in membrane biophysics and chemical biology of 
protein-protein and lipid-protein interactions. 
 
This is an excellent opportunity for Korean nationals interested in initiating a career path in plant 
science in South Korea, but is not limited to such individuals. Expertise in biochemistry, 
proteomics and molecular biology is highly desirable. Previous experience with Arabidopsis 
research is not a requirement, but very useful. Ability to work independently and coordinately will 
be an important asset. Highly motivated individuals with excellent English and Korean language 
and communication skills are strongly encouraged to apply. 
 
These positions are available in early March 2010, but there is the possibility of preliminary 
training and orientation at Ohio State University prior to positioning at POSTECH. Starting yearly 
salary for post-docs will be 25,000,000 KRW to 35,000,000KRW depending on experience; 
20,000,000 to 25,000,000 KRW for technicians. 
 
Interested applicants should send inquires and their CV, a statement of research interests and 
career goals to the below address. Email attachments are preferred. 
 
Dr. David E. Somers 
Department of Plant Cellular and Molecular Biology 
Ohio State University/ 
Division of Integrative Biosciences and Biotechnology 
Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH) 
somers.24@osu.edu <mailto:somers.24@osu.edu> 
http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/pcmb/osu_pcmb/people_faculty_somersDavid.php
