SFI Starting Investigator Research Grants (SIRG) (Ireland)  
The Plant Molecular Biosciences & Biotechnology programme theme of the Biosciences 
Institute (BSI) at University College Cork (UCC), Ireland would welcome applications 
from Arabidopsis researchers interested in establishing their own independent research 
groups via the Science Foundation Ireland (SFI) Starting Investigator Research Grant 
(SIRG) scheme. http://bsi.ucc.ie/index.php?/research/
The SFI Starting Investigator Research Grant (SIRG) Programme provides an 
opportunity for excellent early-career-stage investigators to carry out independent 
research in the fields of science and engineering that underpin biotechnology, information 
and communications technology, and sustainable energy and energy-efficient 
technologies. 
The SFI award also provides funding for a postgraduate student, who will be primarily 
supervised by the Starting Investigator (SI). SIRG awards are up to €500,000 direct costs 
for a period of four years; up to 20 awards are expected to be funded through the current 
funding Call.
Objectives of the SIRG Programme 
o	To enable those at an early-career stage to establish themselves as 
independent researchers; 
o	To provide the support and infrastructure to carry out novel research in 
areas that underpin biotechnology, information and communications 
technology, and sustainable energy and energy-efficient technologies; 
o	To gain important experience towards a full-time academic position, 
including the supervision of the postgraduate student supported by the 
award; 
o	To enable the award holder, together with his/her postgraduate student, to 
carry out their work in Ireland’s public research bodies, including 
universities and institutes of technology; 
o	To offer funding opportunities that help third-level institutions attract and 
develop researchers and their careers.
Eligibility criteria of the Applicant  
The SI applicant must: 
o	Have at least three years, but not more than eight years of relevant 
research experience beyond the PhD, MD, or equivalent (an equivalent 
qualification and/or demonstrated research accomplishments may be 
accepted in exceptional circumstances and must be approved in advance 
by SFI). Allowances will be made for documented leave, including 
maternity leave, paternity leave, parental leave, military service, 
sick/disability leave, and carers leave. 
o	The applicant must demonstrate a proven record of internationally 
recognised independent research accomplishments. The applicant must be 
senior author (first, last or corresponding) on at least 3 articles in 
international peer-reviewed publications AND be a named author on an 
average of at least 1 international peer-reviewed publication per year 
since the award of the PhD (or equivalent). 
o	The applicant must not hold or have held a significant research award of 
greater than one year duration. In addition, this previous award must not 
have had a total value in excess of €100,000 direct costs. Personal awards, 
including student and postdoctoral fellowships, travel awards, and 
bursaries of greater than one-year duration are permissible. 
o	The applicant must not hold a faculty position at the time of application or 
at the start of the award. 
o	The SI must have an identified mentor, who has agreed to allow the SI and 
postgraduate student to carry out research within their laboratory space for 
the duration of the award. 
o	The Research Body must confirm that the SI applicant meets the above 
criteria and must also provide assurance that the space and infrastructure 
to carry out the proposed research are available for the duration of the 
award.
For further overall details on the SFI Starting Investigator Research Grants 
(SIRG) (Ireland) see the following weblink: 
http://www.sfi.ie/content/content.asp?section_id=739&language_id=1
For further details re applying for an SFI Starting Investigator Research Grants 
(SIRG) (Ireland) located within the Plant Molecular Biosciences & Biotechnology 
programme theme of the Biosciences Institute (BSI) at University College Cork 
(UCC), Ireland contact: Dr. Charlie Spillane, University College Cork by e-mail 
at: c.spillane@ucc.ie 

