Faculty Position (Lectureship) in Plant Molecular Biotechnology
 
Botany and Plant Science, National University of Ireland, Galway
 
-----------------------
 
Faculty Position (Lectureship) in Plant Molecular Biotechnology
 
Applications are invited for a Lectureship (Below the Bar) within the
Discipline of Botany and Plant Science at NUI Galway. Botany and Plant
Science is one of the five Disciplines comprising the School of Natural
Sciences, and currently contributes to teaching of undergraduate B.Sc.
programmes in Biotechnology, Botany, Environmental Science and Marine
Science.

The successful candidate will contribute to the design and delivery of
Botany and Plant Science lecture courses, modules and practicals for
undergraduate and postgraduate students. Research interests of existing
groups in Botany and Plant Science span research on plant genetics,
molecular genetics, epigenetics, genomics, biotechnology, evolution,
bioinformatics, physiology, plant ecology and phycology.

The successful candidate will contribute to the School of Natural Sciences-
Research Cluster on Plant and Agri-Biosciences
[www.plantagbiosciences.org/]. The Discipline of Botany and Plant Science is
engaged in research on crops, algae and plant model organisms (e.g.
Arabidopsis thaliana) in Ireland and internationally, including
collaborations with crop research institutes in developing countries (e.g.
ICRISAT, IITA).

The successful candidate will establish her/his own independently funded
research programme (as a Principal Investigator) in Plant Molecular
Biotechnology within Botany and Plant Science, and contribute to research
training of graduate students and other researchers.

The successful candidate will be internationally recognised (via their
publication record) and have an active research programme in key areas of
plant/crop molecular biotechnologies, such as plant improvement for human
health and nutrition, abiotic stress tolerance, applied epigenetics or plant
reproduction/seed biology. Candidates who work on both model organisms (e.g.
Arabidopsis thaliana, microalgae, and yeast) and crop plants are encouraged
to apply, including candidates engaged in the application of plant molecular
biotechnologies for improvement of staple crops in developing countries.
 
Required Qualifications: Applicants are required to have a PhD in plant
molecular genetics, genomics, biotechnology or related area and have
demonstrated research expertise in terms of peer-reviewed publications
preferentially in high-impact international journals.
 
Additional Information:
 
Additional information on Botany and Plant Science at NUI Galway is
available at: http://www.nuigalway.ie/botany/
 
For informal discussion contact: Dr. Heinz Peter Nasheuer, Head of School,
email: heinz.nasheuer@nuigalway.ie and Prof. Charles Spillane, Established
Professor of Plant Science and Head of Botany & Plant Science by email at:
charles.spillane@nuigalway.ie

Salary: €36,230 p.a. to €51,104 p.a.

Closing date for receipt of applications is midnight on Thursday, 18th
August 2011.
 
For more information and Application Form and Procedures please see
information booklets available on following sites.
 
http://www.nuigalway.ie/about-us/jobs/
http://tinyurl.com/44txblc
 
Applications should be sent to nuigposts@publicjobs.ie
 
National University of Ireland, Galway is an equal opportunities employer.
 
The following information booklet is available for viewing: Information
Booklet
<http://www.publicjobs.ie/publicjobs/en/star/goToJobDetails.do?bookletId=361
42&id=1608>
 
Closing Date for Applications: 18/08/2011
 
Reference ID: 1162604 
