Postdoctoral Research Positions—Computational Phylogenetics/Phyloinformatics
Multiple postdoctoral positions are available for research and cyberinfrastructure development associated with reconstructing the 
green plant tree of life. Positions are sponsored by the iPlant Collaborative (http://iplantcollaborative.org), which is supporting 
cyberinfrastructure across the plant sciences. Individuals would work with one of a number of identified investigators focusing on 
specific issues in phylogenetic cyberinfrastructure development. These include high performance computing and scalable tree 
construction (Alexandros Stamatakis—Technical University, Munich; email: stamatak@cs.tum.edu), data set assembly (Doug 
Soltis—U Florida; email: dsoltis@botany.ufl.edu, Pam Soltis—U Florida; email: psoltis@flmnh.ufl.edu; Michael Donoghue—Yale; 
email: michael.donoghue@yale.edu), gene tree reconciliation (Todd Vision—UNC; email: tjv@bio.unc.edu), character evolution 
(Brian O’Meara—U Tennessee; email: bomeara@utk.edu), and tree visualization (Michael Sanderson, UC-Davis; email: 
sanderm@email.arizona.edu). Fellows can anticipate working in a highly collaborative, multi-institutional context, with some travel 
between working groups encouraged. In addition to undertaking basic research in phylogenetic methods, postdocs will be expected 
to provide advice on and work in collaboration with cyberinfastructure developers in the iPlant team. Qualifications include familiarity 
with the data, methods, and software of phylogenetic analysis, and programming experience at least at the level of a scripting 
language such as PERL. Individual PIs may have additional requirements. Inquiries should be directed to any of the Grand 
Challenge Team members listed above. Positions are available immediately. A full description of the iPToL (iPlant Tree of Life) 
project can be found online at http://iptol.iplantcollaborative.org. The institutions involved in this program may be Affirmative Action 
and/or Equal Opportunity Employers.

Program Announcement—Connecting Genotypes to Phenotypes in Complex Environments
Multiple postdoctoral positions will be available for research and cyberinfrastructure development associated with elucidating the 
relationship between plant genotypes and the resultant phenotypes (G2P) in changing environments. The program is sponsored by 
the iPlant Collaborative (http://iplantcollaborative.org), which develops and enables cyberinfrastructure support for Grand Challenge 
research across the plant sciences. Individuals will be work in a team setting with one of a number of specific investigators having 
key roles in issues related to G2P cyberinfrastructure development. These include pipelining and analysis of Next Generation 
sequence data (Tom Brutnell—Boyce Thompson Institute, Cornell University; email: tpb8@cornell.edu), data integration (Matthew 
Vaughn email: vaughn@cshl.edu, and Doreen Ware email: ware@cshl.edu, — both at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory), statistical 
inference for genome-wide association mapping (Dan Kliebenstein— University of California, Davis; email: 
kliebenstein@ucdavis.edu), visualization/analysis (Ruth Grene—Virginia Tech; email: grene@vt.edu), modeling tools (Stephen 
Welch—Kansas State University; email: welchsm@ksu.edu). The work setting will be a highly collaborative, multi-institutional 
context, with some travel between working groups encouraged. In addition to undertaking basic G2P research, individuals will be 
expected to provide advice on and work in collaboration with iPlant cyberinfastructure developers. Qualifications include familiarity 
with one (or preferably more) of the following areas:  functional-, quantitative-, or computational genetics/genomics; bioinformatics; 
programming experience (either scripting languages like PERL or compiled languages like C/C++);  modeling (systems biological, 
ecophysiological, or statistical); database use; current topics in plant biology (especially stress, photosynthesis, or phenology); or 
high performance computing. Individual investigators may have additional requirements. Inquiries should be directed to any of the 
individuals listed above. A full description of the iPlant G2P program, including specific position descriptions as they become 
available, can be found online at http://ipg2p.iplantcollaborative.org.  The institutions involved in this program may be Affirmative 
Action and/or Equal Opportunity Employers.


