Postdoctoral Fellow in Heterosis Studies

Job Description: Hybrids between genetically diverse varieties display enhanced 
growth, and increased total biomass, stress resistance and grain yield. Gene expression 
and metabolic studies in maize, rice and other species suggest that protein metabolism 
plays a role in the growth differences between hybrids and inbreds. The existing theories 
of dominance, overdominance and epistasis are useful to explain some of the 
observations of heterosis but not all. Heterosis is observed in a wide variety of different 
species and is likely to share a common underlying biological mechanism.   The 
Postdoctoral Fellow will work as part of a group led by Stephen Goff and includes 
bioinformaticists and technicians.  We are seeking a skilled molecular biologist 
committed to understanding gene expression, cell biology, and developing further 
evidence for a novel model of hybrid vigor.

Roles and Responsibilities:
*	Use genome wide analysis of gene expression differences in hybrids and their 
inbred parents
*	Carry out molecular biology procedures such as DNA and RNA isolation, 
preparation of constructs and generation of transgenic yeast to study gene 
expression
*	Contribute concepts and planning to influence the direction of the project
*	Contribute to the publication and presentation of research results

Requirements:
*	Demonstrated ability to define, investigate and solve complex problems in plant 
biology using diverse established experimental procedures and to push the limits 
of new technologies to get answers to difficult scientific questions.
*	PhD or will shortly satisfy the requirements for a PhD degree in plant molecular 
biology or a related scientific discipline.
*	Demonstrated ability to work independently under minimal supervision while 
contributing to overall team performance and proven ability to meet performance 
deadlines during the course of a project.
*	Evidence of good communication skills and ability to publish the results of 
scientific research in scientific journals.
*	Sound knowledge and demonstrated research experience in modern molecular 
methodologies, including cloning, PCR, sequence analysis, gene expression and 
microbial transformation.
*	Strong computational literacy and an aptitude or interest in analysis of molecular 
datasets.

Preferred Qualifications:
*	Familiarity with using yeast as a model organism in the lab.

Outstanding University of Arizona benefits include health, dental, vision, and life 
insurance; paid vacation, sick leave, and holidays; UA/ASU/NAU tuition reduction for the 
employee and qualified family members; access to UA recreation and cultural activities; 
and more!  

Please proceed to the University of Arizona Jobs website to apply, 
(https://www.uacareertrack.com) and search for "team analyst".  The University of 
Arizona is an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer.

