The Division of Plant Sciences, University
of  Missouri,  invites  applications  for  a  tenure-track  position  in
plant cell wall biology. The 12-month, assistant professor position
is 60% research and 40% teaching.
Responsibilities: The  successful  candidate  will  be  expected  to
establish  an  innovative,  extramurally  funded  research  program
on the biology, development, and degradation of plant cell walls
and associated ligno-cellulosic structures. Research should focus
on utilization of cellulosic compounds by the emerging biofuels
industries  and  by  economically  important  food-animal
(livestock)  species.  The  University  of  Missouri  has  a  long
history  of  collaboration  within  the  Division  of  Plant  Sciences
and with other teams of scientists across campus. The candidate
will  be  expected  to  explore  collaborative  opportunities  with  the
Interdisciplinary Plant Group, the University of Missouri Center
for  Sustainable  Energy,  and  teams  of  scientists  working  on
thermo-chemical  conversion  of  biomass,  pasture-based  dairies,
and  the  forage-based  beef  industry.  Accessible  to  the  candidate
are excellent laboratory and field research facilities (both on and
off-campus  research  centers)  within  the  Missouri  Agricultural
Experiment  station  network.  The  successful  candidate  is
expected  to  participate  in  the  undergraduate  and  graduate
teaching  and  service  missions  of  the  Division  of  Plant  Science.
Teaching responsibilities include an undergraduate forage crops
class,  as  well  as  a  new  course  in  bio-energy  crops.  Future
teaching  opportunities  could  include  self  or  team-taught
graduate courses in the candidate's area of expertise.
Qualifications: The  applicant  must  have  a  Ph.D.  degree  in  Crop
Science, Agronomy, Plant Sciences or related field. Effective oral
and  written  communications  skills  are  required.  Training  in  the
development,  degradation,  biochemistry,  or  physiology  of  cell
walls as it relates to the biofuels and/or food-animal industries is
desirable. Post-doctoral experience is also desirable.
Applications: Applicants  should  electronically  submit  to
PlantSci@missouri.edu the  following  items  in  MSWord  or
PDF  format:  a  letter  of  application,  a  curriculum  vitae,
transcripts,  a  list  of  four  references  and  their  contact
information,  and  reprints  of  major  publications.  Hard  copies  of
required materials can be sent to
Christa Smith, ESA
Division of Plant Sciences
1-41 Agriculture Bldg.
University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211.
Questions regarding this position should be directed to
Dr.  Rob  Kallenbach,  Chair,  Search  Committee,  at
kallenbachr@missouri.edu or 573-884-2213.
Job Description #: 1506453; OARS file # 090218
Salary and Benefits: Benefits available include health, dental, life
and  disability  insurance  and  a  retirement  plan.  Salary  will  be
commensurate with qualifications and experience.
Application Deadline: Review of applications will begin February
1, 2010 and will continue until a qualified candidate is identified.
The  University  of  Missouri-Columbia  is  an  Equal  Opportunity/Affirmative
Action employer. To request ADA accommodations, please contact our ADA
coordinator. (V/TTY).
