[Arabidopsis] post doctoral position advertizement


COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY
POST DOCTORAL RESEARCH POSITION
FLUORESCENCE IN SITU HYBRIDIZATION IN SUPPORT OF THE INTERNATIONAL EFFORT TO SEQUENCE THE TOMATO GENOME

An NSF-funded post doctoral position is available to do fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in support 
of the international effort to sequence the tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) genome (see <http://www.sgn.cornell.edu>).  
For this project, we currently hybridize genomic DNA (inserts from a tomato BAC library) to pachytene chromosomes to 
keep the sequencing effort concentrated and properly oriented in euchromatin.  In addition, we will do fiber-FISH to 
define the size of gaps between contigs.

Candidates should have a Ph.D. in Genetics, biology, or a related field and a background in cytogenetics and molecular 
biology. Experience with plant chromosomes and FISH is desirable.

Applications will be accepted until the position is filled, but should be received by October 1, 2006 to receive 
full consideration.

Colorado State University is located in Fort Collins, Colorado, a beautiful city of 120,000 people located at the 
foot of the Rocky Mountains 60 miles north of Denver.  The Rocky Mountain National Park and opportunities for 
hiking, skiing, and fishing are located nearby.

Colorado State University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer and complies with all federal and 
Colorado laws, regulations, and executive orders regarding affirmative action requirements in all programs. To 
assist Colorado State University in meeting its affirmative action responsibilities, ethnic minorities, women and 
other protected class members are encouraged to apply and to so identify themselves.

To apply, please send a letter of interest (including relevant experience), a current CV, and names and contact 
information for three references to:

Stephen Stack
Department of Biology
Colorado State University
Fort Collins, CO 80525

FAX 970 491 0649
Telephone 970 491 6802
E-mail: sstack@lamar.colostate.edu
-- 
Stephen M. Stack
Campus Delivery
200 West Lake
Department of Biology
Colorado State University
Fort Collins, CO 80523-1878
TEL (970) 491-6802
FAX (970) 491-0649
Email stephen.stack.colostate.edu
check out the homepage for Chromosome Research at
http://www.springeronline.com/journal/10577

