OPEN-RANK TENURE-TRACK FACULTY POSITION IN PLANT STRESS BIOLOGY Division of 
Plant Sciences University of Missouri 

The Division of Plant Sciences and the Interdisciplinary Plant Group, 
University of Missouri, Columbia (MU), invite applications for an open-rank 
tenure?track position in Plant Stress Biology, a major theme within the 
broader MU emphasis area "Plants for Changing Environments". We seek 
outstanding candidates using modern methods to address research challenges 
in the areas of biotic stress from disease, insect herbivory, and other 
sources; and/or abiotic stress from drought or other extreme environmental 
conditions. 

The successful candidate will be expected to establish an active, 
extramurally funded research program in their area of research 
specialization. The candidate will also be expected to contribute to the 
research and teaching missions of the Division of Plant Sciences and of the 
campus-wide collaborative Interdisciplinary Plant Group ( 
http://ipg.missouri.edu). The applicant must have a Ph.D. degree in Plant 
Sciences, Biochemistry, Ecology, Plant Pathology, Nematology, Entomology, or 
related field. For more information on the position and on research areas of 
particular interest to the Division of Plant Sciences, see 
http://plantsci.missouri.edu/. 

To ensure full consideration, applications should be submitted by December 
5th 2010; however, applications will be considered until the position is 
filled. Applicants must submit a curriculum vitae, and a concise summary of 
research and teaching interests and future plans. These materials should be 
submitted electronically as a single PDF file to plantsci@missouri.edu. 
Applicants should also arrange for three letters of recommendation to be 
sent electronically to the same address. Questions regarding this position 
should be directed to Dr. Robert Sharp at sharpr@missouri.edu, tel. 
573-882-1841. 
MU is an Equal Opportunity / Affirmative Action Employer. Women and 
minorities are especially encouraged to apply. EOE/ADA/V/TTY 
