Job Opening ID (9426) Assistant/Associate Professor: Biomass Feedstock 
Molecular Physiology and Breeding 

The position will be 80% research and 20% teaching. 

Description: The University of Missouri (MU) invites applications for a 
12-month tenure track Assistant/Associate Professor position in the area of 
Biomass Feedstock Molecular Physiology and Breeding. In order to make 
biofuels a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to fossil fuels, it 
is critical to develop non-food feedstock and tailor them to grow on 
marginal lands with low agronomic inputs and minimal environmental impacts. 
The new position will strengthen the existing expertise in the Department 
of Forestry and the Division of Plant Sciences in the areas of biomass 
feedstock production ecology, genetics, and physiology. This position is an 
integral part of University of Missouri's Mizzou Advantage initiative on 
Sustainable Energy and the candidate is expected to operate as part of a 
campus-wide multi-disciplinary team focused on the development of bioenergy 
and advanced biobased products. This is a joint position between the 
Department of Forestry/School of Natural Resources and the Division of 
Plant Sciences in the College of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources at 
MU. 

The successful candidate is expected to aggressively seek extramural 
funding and establish a nationally and internationally recognized research 
program. Some key research areas may include but are not limited to (1) 
improving biomass production by herbaceous and woody feedstock species, (2) 
modification or altered regulation of lignin and/or polysaccharide 
biosynthesis in feedstock species, and (3) molecular marker-based breeding 
for specific feedstock traits, including abiotic stress tolerance. 

The ability to teach undergraduate and graduate students is a requirement. 
 The successful candidate is expected to teach an undergraduate whole-plant 
physiology course and other relevant undergraduate and/or graduate courses 
in the Forestry and Plant Sciences curricula at MU. Advising and mentoring 
of undergraduate and graduate students and post-doctoral scholars is 
expected. 

Qualifications: Candidates should have a Ph.D. in crop/tree breeding, 
genetics, forestry, agronomy, crop science, plant physiology, molecular 
biology or a related plant science discipline with training and experience 
in molecular genetics and plant breeding. Candidates should have a strong 
interest in bioenergy feedstock. The successful candidate is expected to 
possess excellent written and oral communication skills. 

About MU: MU, the flagship institution in the University of Missouri 
System, has nearly 34,000 undergraduate and graduate students. It is a land 
grant institution and a member of the Association of American Universities. 
 Located midway between St. Louis and Kansas City, Columbia is a vibrant 
university town that is consistently ranked among the top small cities to 
live in America. 

To Apply: To apply for this position (job posting reference #XXXX), please 
visit the MU web site at http://hrs.missouri.edu/find-a-job/academic/. 
Please submit a cover letter, curriculum vitae, narratives of research 
interests and teaching philosophy, and the names and contact information of 
three references. Review of applications will begin immediately and will 
continue until the position is filled. 

For additional information about the position, please contact Drs. Shibu 
Jose (joses@missouri.edu<mailto:joses@missouri.edu>) or Gary Stacey ( 
staceyg@missouri.edu<mailto:staceyg@missouri.edu>), Search Committee 
Co-Chairs. 

Benefit Eligibility: This position is eligible for University benefits. 
 The University offers a comprehensive benefits package, including medical, 
dental and vision plans, retirement, and educational fee discounts. For 
additional information on University benefits, please visit the Faculty & 
Staff Benefits website at http://www.umsystem.edu/totalrewards/benefits. 
Equal Employment Opportunity: The University of Missouri is an equal 
access, equal opportunity, affirmative action employer that is fully 
committed to achieving a diverse faculty and staff. For more information, 
call the Associate Vice Chancellor of Human Resource Services/Affirmative 
Action officer at 573-882-4256. 

To request ADA accommodations, please call Human Resource Services at 
573-882-7976. TTY users, please call through Relay Missouri, 1-800-RELAY 
(735-2966) or en Espa–ol at 1-800-520-7309. 