 
The Plant Science Community at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln is a 
vibrant, rapidly growing group of scientists focused in research areas that 
include chromatin biology, abiotic and biotic stress responses, organelle 
biology, metabolic biochemistry, and genetic engineering. We wish to 
announce several important upcoming opportunities in plant science at UNL: 
 
Plant Comparative Genomics Position 
 
A joint, tenure-track Assistant or Associate Professor position is 
currently available in the Plant Science Initiative (http://psiweb.unl.edu) 
at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. The position is 80% research/20% 
teaching with an academic home in the Department of Agronomy and 
Horticulture. The successful candidate is expected to maintain a vigorous, 
externally funded research program focused on comparative genomics of 
plants. Strong preference will be given to research programs that focus on 
crop genome evolution, computational biology, large scale cross-genome 
comparison or DNA marker-based analysis, or related areas. Teaching 
responsibilities include teaching one graduate or undergraduate level 
course annually in Plant Systematics, and mentoring students. A Ph.D. and 
post-doctoral experience in plant genetics, plant biology or systematics, 
computational biology or related field is required. Salary is commensurate 
with qualifications and experience. Review of applications will begin 
November 30, 2007, and continue until the position is filled or the search 
is closed. Applicants should go to http://employment.unl.edu/ (requisition 
#070778) and complete the Faculty/Administrative Information form and then 
send a complete application file consisting of a statement of research 
interests, a current CV and arrange for three letters of recommendation to: 
Search Committee Chair, PSI Comparative Genomics Position, N300 Beadle 
Center for Genetics Research, University of Nebraska-Lincoln 68588-0660 
(USA) 
 
Plant Epigenetics Position 
 
A joint, tenure-track Assistant or Associate Professor position is 
currently available in the Plant Science Initiative (http://psiweb.unl.edu) 
at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. The position is 80% research/20% 
teaching with an academic home in the School of Biological Sciences. The 
successful candidate is expected to maintain a vigorous, externally funded 
research program focused on epigenetic biology of plants. Strong preference 
will be given to research programs that focus on RNA interference, 
non-coding RNAs, chromatin structure and function, genome-wide analyses of 
histone or DNA modifications, gene silencing, paramutation or genomic 
imprinting. Teaching responsibilities include teaching one graduate or 
undergraduate level course annually in a relevant area, and mentoring 
students. A Ph.D. and post-doctoral experience in genetics, molecular 
biology, systems biology or a related field is required. Salary is 
commensurate with qualifications and experience. Review of applications 
will begin November 30, 2007, and continue until the position is filled or 
the search is closed. Applicants should go to http://employment.unl.edu/ 
(requisition #070789) and complete the Faculty/Administrative Information 
form and then send a complete application file consisting of a statement of 
research interests, a current CV and arrange for three letters of 
recommendation to: Search Committee Chair, PSI Epigenetics Position, N300 
Beadle Center for Genetics Research, University of Nebraska-Lincoln 
68588-0660 (USA). Graduate Traineeships in Plant Systems Biology and 
Molecular Plant Breeding. See: http://plantsciences.unl.edu 
 
Postdoctoral Positions 
 
The Plant Science Initiative (http://psiweb.unl.edu) invites applications 
for two postdoctoral research associate positions. The successful 
candidates will contribute to studying the role of transcription factors 
and histone modifications in the responses of Arabidopsis and corn to 
water. We are particularly interested in characterizing chromatin 
modifications associated with stress-responsive genes as well as the target 
network of a subset of inducible transcription factors. Genome-wide 
approaches, such as chromatin immunoprecipitation and high throughput 
sequencing, will be used to analyze transcription factor binding and 
histone modifications during water stress. The research environment 
includes state-of-the-art facilities in the George W. Beadle Center for 
Genetics and Biomaterials Research and opportunities in genomics, 
proteomics, and bioinformatics analyses. A Ph.D. degree in Plant Biology, 
Biological Sciences, Genetics, or a related field is required. Experience 
in molecular genetics, protein biochemistry, and/or antibody production is 
highly desirable. Review of applications will begin November 23, 2007 and 
continue until suitable candidates are found. Interested candidates should 
complete the Faculty/Administrative application form at 
http://employment.unl.edu/ (requisition #060042) and then send a cover 
letter, current CV and the names and contact information of three 
references to Dr. Heriberto Cerutti (hcerutti1@unl.edu) or Dr. Michael 
Fromm (mfromm2@unl.edu) E205/E211 Beadle Center, P.O. Box 880666, 
University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE 68588 USA 
 
For more see: http://www.plantsciences.unl.edu/ 
 
UNL is committed to a pluralistic campus community through Affirmative 
Action and Equal Opportunity. We assure reasonable accommodation under the 
Americans with Disabilities Act. Contact Barbara Gnirk at (402) 472-2635 or 
bgnirk1@unl.edu for assistance
