A tenure-track Assistant Professor position with a focus on Molecular 
Fungal-Plant Interactions is available in Plant Pathology.  Please bring 
this to the attention of suitable candidates. 
Thanks, 
Julie 
 
The Department of Plant Pathology at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln 
invites applications for a 9-month tenure-track faculty position at the 
Assistant Professor level.  This position is 80% research and 20% teaching. 
We are seeking candidates interested in research that is focused on 
elucidating fungal/oomycete-plant interactions using molecular 
genetics/genomic approaches or other cutting-edge technologies.  The 
successful candidate is expected to have a strong commitment to 
undergraduate and graduate education and the ability to teach courses 
within a broad microbiology curriculum, including mycology.  Candidates 
must have a demonstrated research record consisting of publications in high 
profile journals and the ability to attract external grant funds.  A Ph.D. 
in plant pathology, microbiology, or other relevant areas of biological 
sciences is required.  To apply, go to http://employment.unl.edu and 
complete the faculty/administrative form (Requisition #080055) and attach a 
letter of application, curriculum vitae, a 2-3 page description of research 
interests, and a brief statement of teaching philosophy.  In addition, 
arrange to have 3 letters of recommendation sent to:  Search Committee 
Chair, Department of Plant Pathology, Rm. 406 Plant Science Hall, 
University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE  68583-0722.  Review of 
applications will commence on 4-15-08 and will continue until the position 
is filled or the search is closed.  UNL is committed to a pluralistic 
campus community through affirmative action and equal opportunity and is 
responsive to the needs of dual career couples.  We assure reasonable 
accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act; contact Dr. James 
Steadman at 402-472-2858 or jsteadman1@unl.edu for assistance.
