Post Doctoral Associate - miRNAs in nodulation 
 
A post doctoral associate position to study the role of miRNAs and auxin signaling during 
symbiotic nodule development is available in the Department of Plant Science at South Dakota 
State University, Brookings, SD. Species-specific association between legumes and rhizobia 
bacteria leads to the development of nitrogen-fixing root nodules. The role of miRNA-regulated 
auxin signaling in nodule development is largely unknown (See Subramanian et al. 2008 BMC 
Genomics 9: 160; Simon et al. 2009 Plant Physiol). Dr. Subramanian’s lab is interested in 
understanding this process using a combination of genomic and molecular approaches. 
The position offers excellent opportunities for training in plant-symbiont interactions, hormone 
physiology, molecular biology, microscopy and genomics. The ideal candidate would possess a 
recent Ph.D. degree in plant science or related area, be self-motivated with a desire to learn 
novel research techniques, have the ability to perform laboratory experiments in an organized 
manner, be efficient in proper documentation of results and be able to communicate well in 
English. Expertise in plant and bacterial DNA/RNA isolation, gene expression assays (Northern 
analysis and qRTPCR), molecular cloning, bacterial and plant culture techniques and 
fluorescence microscopy is desired but not essential. SDSU’s research facilities include a 
functional genomics core, micro-imaging facility with confocal and laser micro-dissection scopes 
and a mass-spectrometry facility capable of analyzing both proteins and small molecules. Other 
opportunities available for career enhancement include training in undergraduate/graduate 
teaching, scientific writing and research presentations. 
Interested applicants please send a cover letter stating your research interests and a detailed CV 
that includes list of publications, brief description of Ph.D. and/or post-doctoral research projects 
and contact information for at least three references to Dr. Sen Subramanian 
(Senthil.Subramanian@sdstate,edu<mailto:Senthil.Subramanian@sdstate,edu>; Phone: 605-
688-5623). Applications will be accepted until a suitable candidate is found. 
 
Senthil Subramanian, 
Assistant Professor, 
Plant Science Department, 
 
Office: NPB245D, Lab: NPB137 
South Dakota State University, 
Brookings, SD, 57007 
 
Phone: 605-688-5623 
Fax: 605-688-4452
