My lab at the US Dairy Forage Research Center in Madison, WI has recently been 
awarded a USDA-CSREES-NRI grant to support our research on the biochemical 
pathways responsible for o-diphenol biosynthesis in red clover. This grant includes 
support for a postdoc position to start in early 2009. Qualified candidates will have 
hands-on experience in general molecular biology, including PCR, cloning, sequencing, 
making gene constructs; biochemistry, including characterization of proteins and analyses 
of enzymatic activities; and/or plant transformation including plant tissue culture and 
maintenance of transgenic plants. Candidates should also be able to work independently 
and have good oral and written communication skills. NON-US CITIZEN MAY BE 
ELIGIBLE FOR THIS POSITION, provided they already have documentation allowing 
them to work in the US (I CANNOT help with obtaining work visas). Non-US citizens 
must also meet certain other eligibility requirements.

Interested individuals may contact me by e-mail (michael.sullivan@ars.usda.gov). The 
formal application process is expected to begin in Dec. 2008.

The US Dairy Forage Research Center is part of the Agricultural Research Service of the 
US Department of Agriculture and is located on the University of Wisconsin campus in 
Madison, WI. For more information on the US Dairy Forage Research Center visit our 
web site: http://ars.usda.gov/mwa/madison/dfrc

Title: Elucidating the Roles of Hydroxycinnamoyl Transferases and p-Coumaroyl 3-
Hydroxylases in o-Diphenol Biosynthesis in Red Clover

PD: Sullivan, Michael L.            Institution: US Dairy Forage Research Center, ARS-
USDA

Phenylpropanoid o-diphenols accumulate in tissues of many plants functioning as 
defensive molecules and antioxidants. Red clover accumulates high levels of two o-
diphenols, phasalic acid and clovamide. In red clover, post-harvest oxidation of these o-
diphenols to o-quinones by an endogenous polyphenol oxidase (PPO) prevents 
breakdown of forage protein during storage. Agronomically important forages like alfalfa 
lack both PPO and o-diphenols. Consequently, breakdown of their protein upon harvest 
and storage results in economic losses ($100 million/yr) and release of excess nitrogen 
into the environment. Understanding how red clover is able to synthesize and accumulate 
o-diphenols will help in development of forages that take advantage of this natural 
system of protein protection. Also, because o-diphenols are powerful antioxidants, this 
research has implications for human and animal nutrition. Preliminary evidence suggests 
that specific hydroxycinnamoyl transferases (HCTs) and p-coumaroyl 3’ hydroxylases 
(C3Hs) play key roles in red clover o-diphenol biosynthesis and accumulation. Specific 
objectives of this proposal are 1) Identify and isolate red clover gene sequences encoding 
HCTs; 2) Characterize the HCTs and a C3H with respect to substrate specificity and 
reaction characteristics; and 3) Establish the relevance of specific HCTs to biosynthesis 
and accumulation of specific o-diphenols. These objectives will be accomplished using 
several complementary approaches including biochemistry, genomics, and reverse 
genetics.
