Postdoctoral Position in the Dept. of Biology, Duke University:

A postdoctoral position is available immediately to study "Gibberellin Signaling 
in Arabidopsis."

Gibberellin Signaling in Arabidopsis:

Bioactive gibberellins (GAs) are a class of plant hormones that modulate diverse 
developmental processes throughout the life cycle of a plant.  The nuclear DELLA 
proteins are highly conserved negative regulators of GA signaling that act 
immediately downstream of the GA receptors GID1 to repress GA-mediated growth in 
Arabidopsis and in a number of crops.  GA signal appears to de-repress its 
response pathway by triggering degradation of these repressor proteins.  DELLA 
proteins may function as transcriptional regulators, although their direct 
targets have not been identified.  Elucidating the signaling events immediately 
downstream of DELLA is key to our understanding of how GA controls plant 
development.  By microarray analysis and chromatin immunoprecipitation, we 
identified several direct target genes of DELLA proteins. Using biochemical and 
reverse genetic approaches, we are currently investigating the roles of these 
DELLA targets in modulating GA responses.
Related publications:

Dill et al. (2004) The Arabidopsis F-box protein SLEEPY1 targets GA signaling 
repressors for GA-induced degradation. Plant Cell, 16, 1392-1405.

Sun and Gubler (2004) Molecular mechanism of gibberellin signaling in plants. 
Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 55, 197-223.

Fleet and Sun (2005) A DELLAcate balance: the role of gibberellin in plant 
morphogenesis. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 8, 77-85.

Griffiths et al. (2006) Genetic characterization and functional analysis of the 
GID1 gibberellin receptors in Arabidopsis. Plant Cell, 18, 3399-3414.

A background in protein chemistry, genetics, molecular biology or plant 
development is desirable.  If you are interested in applying, please send (by e-
mail) a curriculum vitae and names, e-mail addresses, and phone numbers of three 
references to:

Tai-ping Sun
e-mail address: tps@duke.edu

