Postdoctoral Position in Biology
- Addressing carbon metabolism and allocation in higher plants for production of functional food and 
bioenergy

A postdoctoral position is available immediately after the application time ends at Dept of Plant 
Biology and Forest Genetics, BioCenter, SLU, Uppsala, Sweden. It is one year´s position with a
possibility for extension of an additional year. Further employment can be applied depending on the 
quality of the first two years. The department has a good and stimulating work environment with a 
well internationally recognized quality. The department does, together with five other departments at 
SLU, form the Uppsala BioCenter (http://bioc.slu.se and http://www.vbsg.slu.se/).

Carbon metabolism and allocation are one of the core issues in plant science due to their high 
importance in design of plant production for different applications both in agriculture and industry. 
As new techniques and concepts in plant biotechnology emerge, it is now possible to direct carbon 
flux to different fractions of carbon polymers such as starch, fructan, beta-glucan, cellulose and 
oil in higher plants. We are focusing on two currently hot topics in plant biology, bioenergy and 
functional food.  Our research goals are to use high technology in metabolic engineering such as 
transcription factor technology to reprogram carbon metabolism and produce required carbon polymers 
for many industrial purposes in bioenergy and functional food. For the details of our research please 
visit our website (http://www.slu.se/chuanxin-sun).

You will be supported by a postdoctoral stipend for the first half year and by a salary for the rest 
of one and half years. The objective of your research is to understand carbon allocation in cereal 
endosperm at a level of molecular biology and provide a theoretical support on breeding of cereal 
crops for production of functional food and bioenergy.  You will work on how carbon flux is directed 
in developing cereal endosperm with techniques mostly used in molecular cell biology including 
employing isotopes as a tool. 

Applicants should be dedicated to science and should also be highly motivated and interested in 
molecular cell biology. Knowledge, experience and technical skills in studies of transcription 
factors, gene and protein expression, enzyme heterologous expression, plant transformation and/or 
carbohydrate biosynthesis will be considered as good merits. 

The application should include: 
1) An application letter with motivation and interest, 
2) CV with a summary of previous achievements and publications, 
3) Two reference persons, and 
4) PhD diploma. 

Please send your application marked with ref no 3233/2010 to the Register of SLU, Box 7070, SE-750 07 
Uppsala, Sweden, or email: registrator@slu.se, no later than Oct 29th, 2010.

For further information, please contact associate professor Chuanxin Sun, chuanxin.sun@vbsg.slu.se.


 
 

