

TWO POSTDOCTORAL POSITIONS

At the Department of Plant Biology and Forest Genetics, Swedish Agricultural 
University in UPPSALA

Co-regulation of chromosomal gene clusters by chromatin remodelling
A postdoctoral position is available immediately to study chromatin-remodelling 
factors and their regulation of genomic clusters of co-expressed genes, using 
stamen development in Arabidopsis as a model system. The candidate will work in 
a collaborative project that integrates bioinformatics with experimental plant 
biology with the aim to characterize epigenetic factors that regulate floral 
organ development.

Candidates will have a PhD in molecular biology, genetics or related subject. 
Experience in plant development and/or bioinformatics are desirable. The 
candidate must be able to develop and optimise advanced protocols in molecular 
biology e.g. chromatin immuno-precipitation. Previous experience with 
Arabidopsis is a plus but not required. Good English scientific communication 
skills are essential.

Salary is available as a one-year scholarship with possible extension dependent 
on funding. Review of applications will begin on November 1st and will continue 
until the position is filled. Please send a letter outlining your research 
interests, experiences and skills, current curriculum vitae, name and e-mail 
address of three referees to: Assistant Professor Jens Sundström, SLU, Dept. of 
Plant Biology and Forest Genetics, Box 7080, S-750 07 UPPSALA, SWEDEN,
e-mail: jens.sundstrom@vbsg.slu.se, Telephone +46 18 673247



Functional characterization of a protein kinase family by targeted knockouts in 
the moss Physcomitrella patens
A postdoctoral position is available immediately to study the SnRK2 protein 
kinase family in the moss Physcomitrella patens. The project will initially 
focus on expression studies using targeted GUS insertions and the generation and 
characterization of knockout mutants. The employee will get extensive 
theoretical and practical experience from work with the new model plant 
Physcomitrella patens.

Candidates should have a PhD in molecular biology, molecular plant physiology or 
a related subject. The candidate should have extensive and documented experience 
from molecular biological laboratory work, including molecular cloning 
techniques. Experience from the field of Plant Physiology is also desirable. 
Good English scientific communication skills are essential.

Salary is available as a one year scholarship with possible extension dependent 
on funding. Review of applications will begin on November 1st and will continue 
until the position is filled. Please send a cover letter outlining your research 
interests and achievements, career goals, curriculum vitae, and name and contact 
details of three references to:
Assistant Professor Mattias Thelander, SLU, Dept. of Plant Biology and Forest 
Genetics, Box 7080, S-750 07 UPPSALA, SWEDEN.
E-mail: mattias.thelander@vbsg.slu.se

