
[Arabidopsis] Postdoctoral position available at the University of Oxford, UK


Project Description: Proteomics of the metabolic network of Arabidopsis
Closing Date:  Monday, August 21, 2006

This is a 3 year project funded by BBSRC and it is hoped the successful
candidate will begin by 1st October 2006 or soon thereafter. The grant
holders are Dr Lee Sweetlove, University of Oxford and Prof David Fell,
Oxford Brookes University and the successful applicant will be under Dr
Sweetlove's immediate direction and based in his research lab in the Dept of
Plant Sciences.

The aim of the project is to provide specific experimental information that
will be used as constraints within a mathematical model of the metabolic
network of heterotrophic cells of Arabidopsis. This model will ultimately
allow an exploration of strategies to specifically engineer metabolism for
altered production of useful end products. The modelling part of the project
will be done in David Fell's group located nearby at Oxford Brookes
University and the experimental part in Lee Sweetlove's group. This advert
relates to the experimental part of the project. Experimentally, two pieces
of information will be required to constrain the model. First, changes in
metabolite composition of the cell culture medium will be analysed to
provide metabolic input and output constraints. And second, information
about enzyme abundance will be required. The latter will be derived from a
shotgun proteomics approach in which proteins will be extensively
fractionated by 2-dimensional HPLC, quantified on gels and identified by
mass spectrometry. The project will use a state-of-the-art protein
fractionation system purchased specifically for this project and both
MALDI-ToF and LC-MS/MS mass spectrometry. The project will also include a
comparative proteomic study (using ITRAQ) of the proteomic response to
abiotic stress. Opportunities for cross disciplinary training (ie in the
mathematical / computational side of the project) will be available.

More details and information on how to apply can be found at
www.plants.ox.ac.uk by following the "jobs" link. Informal enquiries can be
made directly to lee.sweetlove@plants.ox.ac.uk

Dr Lee Sweetlove
University Lecturer
Department of Plant Sciences
University of Oxford
UK
