Full-Time Genome Sequence Curator Position Available July 1, 2005
at the Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR, http://arabidopsis.org)

We are seeking applicants for a full-time curator to lead our genome
structure annotation project, including computational and manual updates
of structural annotation for genes and other sequenced objects and
computational updates of functional annotation.

The curator will be responsible for:

1. Coordinating timely and high-quality genome annotation releases.

2. Improving the structural annotation database schema and associated
computational tools and analyses in collaboration with programmers and
database developers.

3. Assisting in developing improved formats and methods for community
access to TAIR genome releases.

4. Presenting TAIR's structural and functional annotation efforts at
conferences, soliciting community feedback and incorporating it into
future releases.

5. Working with programmers to maintain and improve pipelines for
mapping a variety of sequenced objects (cDNAs, ESTs, polymorphisms,
markers, microarray elements, etc) to the genome.

6. Maintaining TAIR's data analysis datasets and assisting with
keeping the data analysis tools (BLAST, FASTA, PatMatch, etc)
functioning.

7. Maintaining the map, clone and marker data and interfaces.

8. Coordinating improvements to TAIR's genome browser (SeqViewer) and
map comparison tool (MapViewer).

The successful candidate will work with a team of curators, software
engineers, and database developers. Successful candidates will have a
Ph.D. degree or equivalent in molecular biology or related field, a
demonstrated ability for independent, critical thinking and excellent
verbal and written communication, teamwork and organizational skills.
Preference will be given to applicants with experience in computational
biology, sequence analysis, comparative genome analysis, or computational
prediction of gene structure or function.

Qualified candidates should email a resume to Sue Rhee at:
rhee@acoma.stanford.edu


---
