Doctoral Fellowships
Max Planck Institute of Molecular Plant Physiology and University of 
Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany


International Max Planck Research School
Primary Metabolism and Plant Growth (IMPRS-PMPG)

The IMPRS-PMPG is a doctoral programme in plant genomics and systems 
biology at the Max Planck Institute of Molecular Plant Physiology and 
the University of Potsdam. Talented graduate students are accepted 
into the programme at regular intervals.

Currently, we are inviting applications for

Doctoral Fellowships

to start in summer/autumn 2009.

We seek highly motivated students who can tackle scientific problems 
in modern plant biology. Doctoral projects will focus on systems-
oriented approaches using the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Our 
research combines molecular phenotyping (‘omics’) technologies and 
cutting-edge analytical techniques with bioinformatics and modelling.

We offer excellent research facilities, interdisciplinary scientific 
training, and a comprehensive complementary training programme. Our 
working language is English.

Students holding or about to obtain a Master’s or equivalent degree 
in biology, biochemistry, chemistry, physics, informatics, 
mathematics, or related fields are encouraged to apply.

For further information about the programme and the online 
application procedure, please visit our website:

http://www-en.mpimp-golm.mpg.de/IMPRS_GoFORSYS/index.html

The IMPRS-PMPG is embedded in a vibrant research community with more 
than 100 doctoral students under the guidance of our faculty, their 
groups, and departments. The Max Planck Institute of Molecular Plant 
Physiology is one of the largest plant research centres in Europe. 
The Science Campus Golm hosts three Max Planck Institutes, two 
Fraunhofer Institutes, the University of Potsdam, and a new centre 
for start-up companies, providing an excellent infrastructure for 
modern cross-disciplinary training. The campus is located in close 
proximity to the many research and educational facilities in Berlin. 
Further information can be found at:
http://www.mpimp-golm.mpg.de/ and http://www.uni-potsdam.de/ 

Applications will be accepted until January 31, 2009.







