Postdoctoral Fellow position in plant epigenetics: Gregor Mendel Institute, Vienna, Austria 

A postdoctoral position is available immediately for a highly motivated individual to study the control 
and function of chromatin dynamics in the Arabidopsis thaliana male gametophyte in the laboratory of 
Dr Hisashi Tamaru at the Gregor Mendel Institute (GMI), Vienna, Austria. 

The GMI, which is integrated into the Vienna Biocenter Campus (VBC), is a basic research institute of the 
Austrian Academy of Sciences and offers an excellent stimulating research environment with state-of-the-art 
equipment for all aspects of molecular biology and plant cultivation. The working language of the GMI is English. 

Current evidence suggests that genome-wide epigenetic reconfigurations occur in the germ cell lineage of 
both animals and plants, involving active DNA demethylation, de novo DNA methylation, and replacement of 
histones and their modifications. Following a forward genetic screen using an automated microscopy and image 
processing system, we identified a mutation, izanagi (igi), that affects both chromatin remodeling in pollen 
and male fertility. This project aims to gain insight into the functions of IGI and to elucidate how IGI 
controls chromatin dynamics and pollen function. Applicants should have a PhD and a strong record of 
peer-reviewed publications in a relevant research area. Experience with Arabidopsis genetics and molecular 
cell biology is essential. Experience of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and immunostaining is 
highly desirable. Candidates are expected to be independent and to actively contribute to the direction of 
the group through collaboration and innovation. 

Please send your application including CV, list of publications, statement of your research interests, and 
contact information for 2-3 referees to Dr Hisashi Tamaru by email at: hisashi.tamaru@gmi.oeaw.ac.at. This 
position is initially funded for 2 years with possible extension. Applicants will only be contacted if invited 
for interview. 
For further information on Tamaru lab, please visit: http://www.gmi.oeaw.ac.at/research-groups/hisashi-tamaru 