Database Curator and Working Group Manager for 
International Food Biotechnology Committee 

ILSI's International Food Biotechnology Committee (IFBiC) seeks a Database Curator for the Crop 
Composition Database (www.cropcomposition.org). The database provides information on the natural 
variability in composition of conventional crops and provides a reference for comparing the 
composition of new crop varieties, including those developed through biotechnology. Information in 
the database is provided by member companies or other groups conducting research on crop composition. 

The curator coordinates the efforts of the data provider group and maintains all database records. 
The ideal candidate will also manage the activities of IFBiC's Sampling and Detection Working Group, 
which organizes workshops internationally on Sampling and Detection Methods for biotechnology crops. 

Principal Responsibilities: Control access to the secure database system and maintain confidentiality 
of data and documentation. Maintain copies of all records related to the database. 

Receive and validate new data submissions. Provide support for data submitters and end users. 
Actively monitor database. Assist ILSI Global Branches and other organizations supported by the IFBiC 
Sampling & Detection Working Group in planning and management of workshops and symposia on Sampling & 
Detection Methods for biotechnology crops. 

Education/ Experience: B.A. in relevant field (biotech, nutrition, agriculture, dbase management, 
library science) plus 5+ years of database management. Ideal candidate will also have event-planning 
and customer-service experience. 

Specialized Knowledge: Basic knowledge of science preferred. Biotech knowledge/Good Laboratory 
Practice experience desirable. Individuals interested in applying for this position should apply to 
info@ilsi.org. ILSI is an EEO/Affirmative Action Employer M/F/D/V.  To learn more about ILSI IFBiC go 
to www.ILSI.org and click on "International Committees".

