The National Science Foundation is seeking qualified candidates for one permanent Program Director 
position in the Division of Molecular and Cellular Biosciences (MCB), Directorate for Biological 
Sciences, Arlington, VA. MCB supports fundamental theory-driven research that leads to quantitative 
and predictive understanding of complex living systems at the molecular, subcellular, and cellular 
levels. Additional information about MCB can be found at http://nsf.gov/div/index.jsp?div=MCB. 

Applicants must possess a Ph.D. in a science or engineering field relevant to any of the scientific 
areas encompassed by MCB. In addition applicants must have six or more years of successful research, 
research administration, and/or managerial experience beyond the Ph.D. in one of these scientific 
areas. Preference will be given to candidates who are tenured faculty members with a strong record of 
research accomplishments and a progressive vision for the emerging areas in molecular and cellular 
biology. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply, but MCB is particularly interested in 
individuals with expertise appropriate for the cellular dynamics and function cluster. This cluster 
seeks theory-driven predictive investigations of diverse cellular and subcellular systems. The cluster 
encourages research projects that use multidisciplinary physical, chemical, mathematical and 
computational approaches to provide novel techniques and integrative insight into fundamental cellular 
functions. 

Individuals interested in applying for this vacancy should submit their materials to announcement 
MCB-2013-0002<https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/335122900>. The position requirements and 
application procedures are located on the NSF Home Page at www.nsf.gov/about/career_opps. If you have 
questions about the application process contact Johane Pace at 703-292-7493, or adsearch@nsf.gov. For 
technical information, contact Dr. Parag R. Chitnis, MCB Division Director, 703-292-8440, pchitnis@nsf.gov 
(Hearing impaired individuals may call TDD 703-292-8044). 
Applications must be received by February 8, 2013. 

NSF is an Equal Opportunity Employer. 