Evolutionary Biologist / Plant Biology

The Department of Biology at Rhodes College seeks qualified applicants for a tenure-track faculty 
position to begin in August of 2011.  Candidates must have a Ph.D. and must have a background and 
expertise in both evolutionary and plant biology.  Applicants should have a commitment to teaching 
undergraduates as well as to maintaining an active research program that engages undergraduate 
students.  Normal teaching responsibilities will include an upper-level Evolution course plus a role 
in the introductory biology course sequence.  Other teaching opportunities may include senior 
seminar, a course for non-science majors, or an additional course in the candidate's area of 
specialty.  Of particular interest are courses in plant biology.  We encourage applications from 
individuals whose interests go beyond traditional disciplinary boundaries.  Information about the 
Department of Biology may be found at http://www.rhodes.edu/biology.  
  
Review of completed applications will begin October 4, 2010 and continue until the position is 
filled.  Candidates from backgrounds typically underrepresented in higher education are strongly 
encouraged to apply.  As Rhodes continues to diversify its student body, we also seek candidates with 
experience working with students from different backgrounds.  Completed applications will include a 
letter of application, a statement of teaching philosophy, a research plan, a curriculum vitae, 
copies of graduate and undergraduate transcripts, and three letters of recommendation.  

Please apply online at jobs.rhodes.edu

For additional information regarding the position, please contact
Gary Lindquester, Chair of the Search Committee, at glindquester@rhodes.edu.

Founded in 1848, Rhodes College is a highly selective, private, residential, undergraduate college, 
located in Memphis, Tennessee.  We aspire to graduate students with a lifelong passion for learning, 
a compassion for others, and the ability to translate academic study and personal concern into 
effective leadership and action in their communities and the world. We encourage applications from 
candidates interested in helping us achieve this vision.  Memphis has a metropolitan population of 
over one million and is the nation's 19th largest city. The city provides multiple opportunities 
for research and for cultural and recreational activities. Read more about Memphis.   We are an equal 
opportunity employer committed to diversity in the workforce. 
 

