The Department of Plant Systems Biology, VIB, University Ghent is an 
internationally renowned and dynamic research institute that employs molecular genetics, 
genomics and bioinformatics to unravel developmental processes in plants. The Systems 
Biology of Yield group, headed by Prof. Dirk Inzé, is focusing on the integration of 
multiple data sources (genomics, transcriptomics, phenotyping) to investigate the complex 
regulation of plant growth in relation to the environment. 

Job description: 
We want to recruit an enthusiastic postdoc in computational biology to 
perform research in the field of plant systems biology. With the advent of sequencing 
technologies, we are now able to exploit the natural variation of plants to study growth and 
development in the model species Arabidopsis thaliana as well as the crop species Zea mays (corn). 
You will be involved in the integrative analysis of RNA-seq data and growth phenotype 
data to investigate the molecular basis of leaf growth control. The successful 
applicant will be working in close collaboration with our experimental team, to develop and 
apply computational methods to analyze in-house generated data. 

More information: 
Department of Plant Systems Biology (www.psb.ugent.be) 
Job opportunities at PSB: see http://www.psb.ugent.be/jobs. 
Bioinformatics activities: see bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be. 

Profile: 
- You have a PhD degree in Bioinformatics, Computational Biology, 
Computational Science or in Biotechnology/Biochemistry/Bioengineering or equivalent 
through experience. 
- You have a good knowledge/experience in programming (one or more of the 
following: Perl/Python, R, Matlab, mySQL), proficiency in Unix/Linux. 
- Experience with next-generation sequencing, microarray data analysis or 
genomewide association mapping is a plus 
- Strong background in statistics is a plus 
- Good knowledge of plant biology is a plus 
- You speak English fluently. You have good communication skills and like 
to work in a team. You can work independently and like to take initiative. 

The contract will be for a period of 3 years. We offer a diverse job in a 
young international team, an open and informal work atmosphere and in modern facilities. The 
institute is located in the vibrant university city of Ghent. Start date is as soon as possible, 
the position remains vacant until a suitable candidate is found. 

Application: Send your letter of motivation, your CV and references to 
Christine Tiré (christine.tire@psb.vib-ugent.be). Further information can be obtained by 
contacting Stefanie De Bodt (stefanie.debodt@psb.vib-ugent.be). 

Please add the following reference to your application: 
POSTDOC_SBY_COMPBIO11 

