POSITION - Research Assistant

JOB RESPONSIBILITIES
The Toomajian laboratory (https://sites.google.com/site/toomajianlab/) 
in the Department of Plant Pathology at Kansas State University seeks 
applications for a full time laboratory research technician (research 
assistant). The RA will join a new laboratory investigating patterns of 
genetic variation in natural populations of plants and fungi with the 
aim of understanding the genetics of adaptation and processes involved 
in genome evolution. The lab spans the intersection of computational 
biology, evolution, and functional genomics. The RA will be expected to 
participate in research projects in the field of molecular population 
genetics/genomics. Techniques used will include: plant growth and care, 
genetic crosses, nucleic acid isolation, PCR, DNA genotyping and 
sequencing, and related sample preparation. The RA will also assist in 
supervision and training of laboratory personnel, maintain records, 
manage biological materials, oversee laboratory compliance issues and 
contribute to the maintenance and running of the laboratory. For 
questions and informal inquiries, please contact Chris Toomajian, 
Department of Plant Pathology, Kansas State University, 
toomajia@ksu.edu.

For a full description, including required and preferred 
qualifications, see 
http://www.plantpath.k-state.edu/DesktopDefault.aspx?tabid=486

The appointee is expected to contribute towards the research effort of 
the laboratory and department, and to develop his/her research 
expertise through the pursuit of defined projects. The appointee will 
be expected to work both as a member of a team and independently under 
limited supervision and will have the opportunity to contribute to 
research publications (including co-authorship). 

TO APPLY
Please submit by email or hard copy: (1) a cover letter, including your 
anticipated start date, (2) a curriculum vitae, (3) a statement 
describing your research experiences and interests, and (4) names, 
addresses, telephone numbers and email addresses of at least three 
referees to: 
Dr Chris Toomajian, Department of Plant Pathology, 4024 Throckmorton 
Plant Sciences Center, Kansas State University, Manhattan, KS 66506-
5502, email: toomajia@ksu.edu; Tel: 785-532-0879. Please address in 
your application how you meet the required and preferred 
qualifications.
Review of applications will begin January 27, 2009; screening will 
continue until the position is filled.

Kansas State University is an equal opportunity, affirmative action 
employer and actively seeks diversity among its employees. Background 
checks required.




