Postdoc - Kansas State University, Genome bioinformatics 

Dr. Toomajian's Molecular Population Genetics Lab investigates genetic 
variation in natural populations of plants and fungi with an aim of 
understanding the genetics of adaptation. The lab spans the 
intersection of computational biology, evolution, and functional 
genomics. We are recruiting a highly motivated postdoc to help analyze 
Arabidopsis next-generation transcriptome sequence to characterize 
gene expression variation. This project is laying the groundwork for 
studies of the genetic control and evolution of gene expression and 
the integration with population genomics data. The candidate will also 
participate in the lab's fungal population genomics projects, and 
training on techniques related to all projects is available. 
Toomajian lab website https://sites.google.com/site/toomajianlab/ 
NSF Arabidopsis 2010 project website http://seqr-1.biology.utah.edu/NSF2010/index.html 
Department website www.plantpath.ksu.edu 
The lab interacts with K-State's Ecological Genomics Institute http://ecogen.ksu.edu/ 

The area of emphasis for this position will be bioinformatics and 
genomics. The successful candidate may develop independent projects 
related to the main goals of the lab. This position requires excellent 
independent discretion and judgment and may involve some supervision 
of graduate and/or undergraduate students. 

Qualifications include: 
- PhD in a Biosciences field 

- Computer programming skills (i.e., C/C++, Python, PERL, Ruby, 
or R) 

- Familiarity with the UNIX/LINUX computer-operating environment 
and with databases 

- Experience in and/or knowledge of bioinformatics and 
statistical analysis 

Other preferred qualifications include: 
- Previous experience with molecular biology laboratory techniques 

- Experience working with next-generation sequencing datasets and 
analysis tools 

- Experience analyzing RNA-Seq data 

- Knowledge of population genetics and/or molecular evolution 


Application procedure: 
See full ad with complete instructions at: http://www.plantpath.ksu.edu/doc1303.ashx 
A complete application must include: 1) a cover letter that includes 
timing of availability for this position and lists your research 
interests in working in the lab of Dr. Toomajian; 2) a curriculum 
vitae; 3) a statement describing your relevant educational and 
research experiences and how they relate to the qualifications 
(necessary and preferred) of the position (2 pages maximum); 4) up to 
3 reprints; and 5) arrange to have 3 professional letters of 
recommendation sent. 
All application materials may be sent as hard copies or PDF documents 
electronically. 
E-mailed applications should be sent to plantpath@ksu.edu Use "Genome 
bioinformatics position" in subject line of email to ensure your 
application materials are received. 
Deadline for applications: 02/20/2012. 

Kansas State University is an equal opportunity, affirmative action 
employer and actively seeks diversity among its employees. Background 
checks required. 
