PhD student position 
 
available in the laboratory of Chris Toomajian (sites.google.com/site/toomajianlab) at Kansas 
State University to pursue projects in plant population genetics and functional genomics. Looking 
for a student with a bachelor’s or master’s degree in bioinformatics, biology, or a related 
quantitative discipline such as computational biology, computer science, or statistics. Applicants 
should have some computer programming experience and a working knowledge of molecular 
evolution or population genetics, ideally with some coursework in statistics. Prior work on a 
project combining these fields is advantageous. The student’s projects will likely involve the 
statistical and population genetic analysis of DNA sequence and polymorphism data-sets. This 
may include collaborations with molecular biologists, bioinformaticians, and statistical geneticists. 
Please contact me for further information about potential projects. 
Research will emphasize bioinformatics, though additional wet-lab or bioinformatics components 
may be added depending on shared interests and funding opportunities. 
 
The expected starting date is flexible, anywhere between January and August 2010, though 
earlier start dates are preferred. 
 
To apply: For all email correspondence, please use “PhD student recruitment” as your subject. 
Send a letter describing your interests and qualifications for the position, specifying how your 
skills match the position requirements, your CV, and contact information for 3 
academic/professional references. Please include your GPA and GRE scores (if available) in your 
application. The selected student is expected to enroll either in the Interdepartmental Genetics 
program (www.oznet.ksu.edu/genetics) or the Department of Plant Pathology (www.plantpath.k-
state.edu). Further information about policies and entrance requirements pertaining to university 
admission are found at the Kansas State University Graduate School website (www.k-
state.edu/grad/). 
Current stipends for Ph.D. students in either program are $22,300. The KSU Department of Plant 
Pathology is a diverse and nurturing graduate training environment, and little or no teaching 
assistant duties are required for the degree. The lab also participates in K-State’s Ecological 
Genomics Institute, a vibrant community composed of faculty, post-docs, and graduate students 
from a number of disciplines. 
 
for more information, contact: 
 
Christopher Toomajian 
Assistant Professor 
Kansas State University 
Department of Plant Pathology 
4024 Throckmorton Plant Sciences Center 
Manhattan, KS 66506 
office: (785) 532-0879 
fax: (785) 532-5692 
toomajia@ksu.edu 
http://sites.google.com/site/toomajianlab/ 
iChat A/V: christoomajian@AIM
