POSTDOCTORAL OR RESEARCH SCIENTIST/TECH POSITION: ARABIDOPSIS 
PEPTIDE  
SIGNALING AND DEVELOPMENT  
University of Washington, Seattle  
 
A postdoctoral position (or a research scientist assistant position) is  
available immediately to investigate receptor kinase signal transduction  
pathways specifying aboveground organ morephogenesis and epidermal  
(stomatal) patterning.  
 
A successful candidate will use integrated approaches of confocal  
(time-lapse) imaging, biochemistry and molecular genetics to investigate how  
cell-cell signals mediated by the peptide ligands will translate into cell  
proliferation and cell-type differentiation. See our references, such as  
Guseman et al. (2010) Development 137, 1731-; Pillitteri et al. (2007)  
Nature 445, 501-; Hara et al. (2007) Genes Dev 15, 1720-; Shpak et al.  
(2005) Science 309, 290-.  
 
A candidate must be proficient in biochemistry and live imaging techniques  
at tissue-, cellular- or subcellular levels. Candidates with strong  
quantitative skills are highly desired. Previous experience in  
Arabidopsis/plants is not required but a plus. A candidate must be strong  
in communication- and analytical skills, focused and motivated, and able to  
work as a team as well as independently.  
 
Salary is commensurate with qualifications and experience (based on the NIH  
scale according to the University Guideline). The position will be initially  
available for one year, with the renewal based on the performance and  
funding availability. The successful candidate will be encouraged to apply  
for independent fellowships. Due to the guideline of the funding agency,  
preference will be given to candidates within two years of postdoctoral  
experience.  
 
Please send a cover letter (1-2 pages) outlining your research interest and  
career goal, current curriculum vitae, and a name and e-mail address of  
three-four referees to:  
 
Prof. Keiko Torii  
Department of Biology, University of Washington  
Box 351800  
Seattle, WA 98195-1800  
ktorii@u.washington.edu  
http://faculty.washington.edu/ktorii  
 
The University of Washington is an equal opportunity employer.
