POSTDOCTORAL POSITIONS, Howard Hughes Medical Institute and University of
Washington, Seattle

LIVE IMAGING PLANT EPIDERMIS

~Dynamics of cell-cell interactions during plant epidermal development~

Keiko Torii Lab; Several postdoctoral positions (or a research scientist
positions) are available immediately to investigate dynamics of cell-cell
interactions during plant epidermal development. We have identified that
signal transduction cascades mediated by peptide ligands and receptor
kinases controlling proper spacing and patterning of stomata, microscopic
valves on the plant epidermis, and further discovered a series of master
regulatory transcription factors that make stomata.

A successful candidate will use sophisticated live imaging techniques, such
as FRAP, FRET, FLIM, and developing new optical/imaging tools for
caging/uncaging signaling components, to investigate and manipulate the
dynamics of peptide ligand-receptor mediated signaling and cell-cell
interactions leading to functional tissue patterning.

A candidate must be proficient in live imaging techniques at tissue-,
cellular- or subcellular levels. Solid background in basic molecular biology
is required. Candidates with strong quantitative skills and engineering
backgrounds are most highly desired. Previous experience in
Arabidopsis/plants is not required but can be a plus. A candidate must be
strong in communication- and analytical skills, focused and motivated to
succeed, and able to work as a team as well as independently. We are also
looking for specialists in ChIP-seq/ ChIP-chip assays, and protein
phosphorylation/ ubiquitination biochemistry (mass spec, phosphopeptide
mapping, etc), So if you have such expertise, you are also welcome!

Salary is commensurate with qualifications and experience (based on
University of Washington, NIH or HHMI scale). The position will be initially
available for one year, with the renewal (up to 4-5 years) based on the
performance and funding availability. The successful candidate will be
encouraged to apply for independent fellowships to gain independent programs
for his/her future career path. Due to the guideline of the funding agency,
priority will be given to candidates within two years of postdoctoral
experience. Send a cover letter (1-2 pages) outlining your research interest
and career goal, current curriculum vitae, and a name and e-mail address of
three-four referees to:

Dr. Keiko Torii
Distinguished Professor of Biology
Howard Hughes Medical Institute
Department of Biology, University of Washington
Box 351800 Seattle, WA 98195-1800
ktorii@u.washington.edu http://faculty.washington.edu/ktorii 
