POSTDOCTORAL / RESEARCH SCIENTIST POSITION: 

Integrating regulatory logics of tissue patterning in plant epidermis 

Howard Hughes Medical Institute and University of Washington, Seattle 

  

Postdoctoral positions are available to investigate dIntegrating regulatory logics of tissue 
patterning in plant epidermis in the Keiko Torii lab. We have identified that signal transduction 
cascades mediated by peptide ligands and receptor kinases and a series of master regulatory 
transcription factors control proper spacing and patterning of stomata, microscopic valves on the 
plant epidermis. 

A successful candidate will use the sophisticated live imaging techniques to investigate and 
manipulate the dynamics of cell-cell interactions leading to functional tissue patterning. We are 
also looking for candidates with strong expertise in systems (large-scale) approach to integrate 
signaling networks to transcription factor cascades. See the lab webpage for recent publications 
(http://faculty.washington.edu/ktorii). 

A candidate must have demonstrated their scientific achievement as publication records. We prefer 
candidates with a proficiency in live imaging techniques at tissue-, cellular- or subcellular 
levels and/or genomics techniques (e.g. ChIP-seq) using next generation sequencers. Solid 
background in basic molecular biology is required. Candidates with strong quantitative skills are 
most highly desired. A candidate must be strong in communication- and analytical skills, focused 
and motivated, and able to work as a team as well as independently. 

Salary is commensurate with qualifications and experience (will be based on the NIH guideline). 
The position will be initially available for one year, with the renewal based on the performance 
and funding availability. The successful candidate will be encouraged to apply for independent 
fellowships to gain independent programs for his/her future career path. Due to the guideline of 
the funding agency, preference will be given to candidates within three years of postdoctoral 
experience. 

Send a cover letter (1-2 pages) outlining your research interest and career goal, current 
curriculum vitae, and a name and e-mail address of three-four referees to: 

Keiko Torii 

Endowed Distinguished Professor of Biology 

Department of Biology, 

University of Washington 

Box 351800 Seattle, WA 98195-1800 

ktorii@u.washington.edu 

http://faculty.washington.edu/ktorii 
