Research Technician position – Arabidopsis molecular and developmental genetics
Department of Biology, University of Washington, Seattle


A research technician position is available immediately in the Keiko Torii lab 
at the University of Washington (http://faculty.washington.edu/ktorii).  A 
successful applicant will assist our ongoing genetic screen of stomatal 
patterning mutants, protein gel-blot analysis, plasmid construction, generation 
and selection of transgenic plants, genetic crosses, and phenotypic 
characterization of the mutants/transgenic plants.

The applicants must be meticulous, highly organized, motivated, can work 
independently as well as a team, and must like to take care of plants on a daily 
basis.  The primary duty includes help other scientists in the lab and ‘run’ the 
lab smoothly, such as soiling and watering Arabidopsis, maintenance of 
oligonucleotide/plasmid database and seed and chemical stock inventory in the 
Torii lab, and training of undergraduate lab assistants.  A previous experience 
as undergraduate lab aides is required, and experience in PCR and DNA-gel 
analysis is preferred.

The position is secured for one year, with additional 1~2 years of extension 
based on the performance and funding availability.  Therefore, the position is 
highly suited for recent college graduates who wish to have strong research 
experience before heading onto the graduate career in related disciplines.  The 
Torii lab provides a vigorous research training in the highly visible research 
area, and our former/current technicians have first-authored and/or co-authored 
research manuscripts in first-rate journals, including Nature, Development, 
Developmental Biology, and Plant Physiology.

This is a full-time position with benefit, including Medical/Vision/Dental 
Insurance and retirement, according to the University of Washington guidelines.  
Due to the type of appointment, the candidate must be a US citizen/permanent 
resident

Please send your CV (resume), a copy of transcripts (alternatively, grade points 
of courses in chemistry and biology), and phone number/e-mail/address of two 
references to:

Dr. Keiko Torii, Associate Professor
Department of Biology
University of Washington,
Hitchcock 544
Seattle, WA 98195-5325

ktorii@u.washington.edu

