POSTDOCTORAL POSITION: LIGAND-RECEPTOR DYNAMICS DURING ARABIDOPSIS STOMATAL 
DEVELOPMENT
University of Washington, Seattle

A postdoctoral position is available immediately to study ligand-receptor 
dynamics during stomatal patterning and differentiation.  We have shown that a 
family of three receptor-like kinases control the density and orientation of 
asymmetric cell division and stomatal differentiation (Shpak et al. 2005 Science 
309:290-293).  Our more recent work has led to a discovery of a candidate ligand 
gene as well as downstream ‘key switch’ transcription factors that direct a 
series of cell-state transition leading to stomatal differentiation (Pillitteri 
et al. 2007 Nature 445:501-505; Hara et al. 2007 Genes & Dev 15:1720-1725).  A 
successful candidate will develop new methods to study ligand-receptor dynamics 
at cellular and subcellular levels using molecular-genetic tools readily 
available in my laboratory (e.g. stomatal-lineage markers, mutant resources, and 
fluorescent-tagged receptors) and further develop new tools.  The project seeks 
to unravel how cell-cell signals, specifically, ligand-receptor actions will 
translate into stomatal cell-type differentiation during epidermal development.

Candidates must have excellent communication skills, ability to conduct research 
independently and as a team, and strong backgrounds in molecular biology, 
genetics, and imaging/microscopy. Candidates must be proficient and in confocal 
microscopy and imaging at tissue-, cellular-, or subcellular levels.  Previous 
experience with Arabidopsis (plants) is a plus but not required.

Salary is commensurate with qualifications and experience. The position is 
initially for one year, with possibility of extension based on performance and 
funding availability. The successful candidate will be encouraged to apply for 
independent fellowships.  Due to the guideline of University of Washington, 
preference will be given to candidates with less than four years of postdoctoral 
experience.

Please send a cover letter outlining your research interests and career goals, 
current curriculum vitae, and a name and e-mail address of three referees to:

Prof. Keiko Torii
Department of Biology, University of Washington
Box 355325,
Seattle, WA 98195-5325
ktorii@u.washington.edu
http://faculty.washington.edu/ktorii

The University of Washington is an equal opportunity employer.

