TWO POSTDOCTORAL POSITIONS/RESEARCH TECH POSITION: 
ARABIDOPSIS STOMATAL DEVELOPMENT 
University of Washington, Seattle 
 
Two postdoctoral positions (one position may be converted for a Research Tech) are 
available immediately to study stomatal patterning and differentiation.  We have shown 
that a family of three receptor-like kinases controls the density and orientation of 
asymmetric cell division and stomatal differentiation (Shpak et al. 2005 Science 309:290-
293).  Our more recent work has led to a discovery of a candidate ligand gene as well as 
downstream ‘key switch’ transcription factors that direct a series of cell-state transition 
leading to stomatal differentiation (Pillitteri et al. 2007 Nature 445:501-505; Hara et al. 
2007 Genes & Dev 15:1720-1725). 
 
Position 1. Receptor-Ligand Interactions and Dynamics: A successful candidate will 
develop new methods to study ligand-receptor interactions and dynamics at cellular and 
subcellular levels using molecular-genetic tools readily available in my laboratory.  The 
project seeks to unravel how cell-cell signals, specifically, ligand-receptor actions will 
translate into stomatal cell-type differentiation during epidermal development. 
 
Position 2. Transcription factors controlling stomatal differentiation:  A successful 
candidate will study the molecular and genetic mechanisms of how a family of bHLH 
transcription factors direct cell fate decisions to form stomata. Furthermore, the 
successful candidate will continue our current transcriptional profiling efforts to 
characterize molecular signatures associated with stomatal stem cell state. 
 
Candidates must have excellent communication skills, ability to conduct research 
independently and as a team, and strong backgrounds in molecular biology, genetics, and 
imaging/microscopy. Candidates must be proficient and in confocal microscopy and 
imaging at tissue-, cellular-, or subcellular levels as well as basic protein biochemistry 
(i.e. Western blotting, co-p) for position 1.  Previous experience in microarray analysis 
and Chromatin IP experiments are highly desired for position 2.   Either position may be 
considered for a qualified Research Technician, who wishes to gain experience before 
heading for the graduate career. 
 
Salary is commensurate with qualifications and experience (based on the NIH scale 
according to the University Guideline).  The position 1 currently has funding until 2011 
(supported by NSF); the position 2 is initially available for one year.  Either position will 
be renewed annually based on the performance and funding availability. The successful 
candidate will be encouraged to apply for independent fellowships.  Due to the guideline 
of University of Washington, preference will be given to candidates with less than four 
years of postdoctoral experience. 
 
Please send a cover letter outlining your research interests and career goals, current 
curriculum vitae, and a name and e-mail address of three referees to: 
 
Prof. Keiko Torii 
Department of Biology, University of Washington 
Box 355325, 
Seattle, WA 98195-5325 
ktorii@u.washington.edu 
http://faculty.washington.edu/ktorii 
 
The University of Washington is an equal opportunity employer.
