POSTDOCTORAL OR RESEARCH SCIENTIST/TECH POSITION: ARABIDOPSIS STOMATAL 
DEVELOPMENT 
University of Washington, Seattle 
 
A postdoctoral position (or a research technician/research scientist position) is available starting 
Summer 2009 to investigate cellular dynamics during stomatal patterning and differentiation.  We 
have shown that a family of three receptor-like kinases and a putative ligand molecule enforce the 
proper asymmetric cell division and stomatal differentiation (Shpak et al. 2005 Science 309:290-; 
Hara et al. 2007 Genes & Dev 15:1720-).  Our work has also led to a discovery of ‘key switch’ 
bHLH transcription factors that direct a series of cell-state transitional events during stomatal 
differentiation (Pillitteri et al. 2007 Nature 445:501-; Pillitteri and Torii 2007 BioEssays 29:861-; 
Pillitteri et al. 2008 Plant Cell Physiol 49:934-; Kanaoka et al. 2008 Plant Cell 20: 1775-). 
 
A successful candidate will develop new methods to study ligand-receptor interactions and 
dynamics at cellular and subcellular levels using molecular-genetic tools readily available in my 
laboratory.  The project seeks to unravel how cell-cell signals, specifically, ligand-receptor actions 
will translate into stomatal cell-type differentiation during epidermal development.  Alternatively a 
successful candidate may study the biochemical and cellular mechanisms of how a bHLH 
transcription factor pair, SCREAM1/ICE1 and SCREAM2, controls both stomatal differentiation 
and cold-induced transcriptome. 
 
The candidates must be proficient in Confocal microscopy and live imaging techniques at tissue-, 
cellular- or subcellular levels.  Candidates with strong biochemistry and quantitative skills are 
highly desired.  Previous experience in Arabidopsis/plants is not required but a plus.  The position 
may be considered for a qualified Research Technician/Scientist, who wishes to gain experience 
before heading for the graduate career. A candidate must have strong communication skills and 
analytical skills, and be able to work as a team as well as independently. 
 
Salary is commensurate with qualifications and experience (based on the NIH scale according to 
the University Guideline). The position will be renewed annually based on the performance and 
funding availability. The successful candidate will be encouraged to apply for independent 
fellowships.  Due to the guideline of the funding agency, preference will be given to candidates 
within two years of postdoctoral experience (Ph.D. 2007 or later). 
 
Please send a cover letter (1-2 pages) outlining your research interest and career goal, current 
curriculum vitae, and a name and e-mail address of three-four referees to: 
 
Prof. Keiko Torii 
Department of Biology, University of Washington 
Box 351800 
Seattle, WA 98195-1800 
ktorii@u.washington.edu
