Postdoctoral Position/Research Scientist position: Transcriptional 
profiling and transcription-factor control of plant development 
University of Washington, Seattle 
 
A postdoctoral position or a research scientist position is available 
immediately to study transcriptional profiling and function of 
transcription factors controlling stomatal differentiation.  Our lab is 
studying receptor-kinase signal transduction controlling stomatal 
patterning and differentiation (Shpak et al. 2005 Science 309:290-293; 
Hara et al. 2007 Genes & Dev 15:1720-1725).  We have recently 
discovered ‘key switch’ transcription factors that direct a series of 
cell-state transition leading to stomatal differentiation, and further 
identified additional transcription factors regulating this process 
(Pillitteri et al. 2007 Nature 445:501-505; our unpublished results). 
A successful candidate will study how these newly identified 
transcription factors control cell-type differentiation, as well as 
initiate transcriptional profiling for specific molecular signatures 
associated with stomatal stem cell state. 
 
Candidates must have excellent communication skills, ability to conduct 
research independently and as a team, and must have strong backgrounds 
in molecular biology, genetics, and biochemistry.  A strong 
experimentalist with proficiency in Affymetrix array analysis and 
bioinformatics is desirable.  Previous experience with Arabidopsis is a 
plus. 
 
Salary is commensurate with qualifications and experience. The position 
is initially for one year, with possibility of extension based on 
performance and funding availability. The successful candidate will be 
encouraged to apply for independent fellowships.  Due to the guideline 
of University of Washington, candidates must be less than four years of 
postgraduate.  For the research scientist position (which requires 
B.Sc. or equivalent degree with a year of research experience), 
candidate must have a legal visa status to be employed in the US. 
 
Please send a cover letter outlining your research interests and career 
goals, current curriculum vitae, and a name and e-mail address of three 
referees to: 
 
Prof. Keiko Torii 
Department of Biology, University of Washington 
Box 355325, 
Seattle, WA 98195-5325 
ktorii@u.washington.edu 
http://faculty.washington.edu/ktorii 
 
The University of Washington is an equal opportunity employer.
