Post-doctoral research associate position available at Umeå 
Plant Science Centre

Biosynthesis and development of Cell Walls

     A post-doctoral position is available in the Umeå Plant Science Center, Sweden to join a 
research program studying the biosynthesis and developmental dynamics of cell walls. The group 
has a long track record in research on xylem development and wood formation using Populus and 
Arabidopsis. The project will be supervised by Prof Björn Sundberg (Populus and cell walls) and 
Dr Totte Niittylä (Arabidopsis and primary metabolism). The group has a well-developed contact 
network and is a partner in several national excellence centres  and European projects. 
     The successful applicant will join the research to work and further explore one or several 
topics ongoing in the group. The work will mainly involve functional genomics using 
bioinformatics, creation and characterization of mutants using molecular and chemical state of the 
art techniques established at UPSC platforms. Applicants should have a PhD in plant biology, 
biochemistry/chemistry or, background in molecular genetics and -techniques, and a genuine 
interest to carry out experimental plant research. Experience in research on cell walls, vascular 
development and molecular biological methods on Arabidopsis and/or Populus is of merit. Good 
written and oral communication skills in English are required. The position can be started as soon 
as is appropriate. Funding is for 1+1 years and the salary will be approx. 25.000 SEK/month 
(before tax).
     Umeå Plant Science Centre (UPSC http://www.upsc.se/ ) is a centre of experimental plant 
biology in Umeå, Sweden. UPSC provides excellent facilities for plant cell wall research and a 
unique set-up to study poplar biology. There are about 170 persons from 32 different countries 
working at UPSC. Umeå is a vibrant university town and the cultural capital of northern Sweden 
with good access to Stockholm and the rest of the world.
     To apply, send cover letter detailing research experience, achievements and publications, 
curriculum vitae and the names of three references to Björn Sundberg 
(Bjorn.Sundberg@genfys.slu.se). Application deadline is April 23 2008. 

For more information contact Björn Sundberg (Bjorn.Sundberg@genfys.slu.se) or Totte Niittylä 
(totten@stanford.edu).

Publications of interest
Siedlecka A, Wiklund S, Peronne MA, et al.. 2008. Pectin methyl esterase inhibits intrusive and symplastic cell growth in developing 
wood cells of Populus. Plant Physiology 146: 554-565.
Andersson-Gunneras S, Mellerowicz EJ, Love J, et al. . 2006. Biosynthesis of cellulose-enriched tension wood in Populus: global 
analysis of transcripts and metabolites identifies biochemical and developmental regulators in secondary wall biosynthesis. Plant 
Journal.: 144-165
Hertzberg M, Aspeborg H, Schrader J, et al. 2001. A transcriptional roadmap to wood formation. PNAS. 98: 14732-14737
Mellerowicz EJ, Baucher M, Sundberg B, et al.. 2001. Unravelling cell wall formation in the woody dicot stem. Plant Mol. Biol. 47: 
239-274
Niittylä, T., Fuglsang, A.T., Palmgren, M.G., Frommer, W.B. and Schulze, W.X. (2007). Temporal analysis of sucrose-induced 
phosphorylation changes in plasma membrane proteins of Arabidopsis. Mol Cell Proteomics 6, 1711-1726.
Chaudhuri, B., Niittylä, T., Hörmann, F. and Frommer, W.B. (2007). Fluxomics with ratiometric metabolite dyes. Plant Signaling & 
Behavior 2, 120-122.
Niittylä, T., Comparot-Moss, S., Lue, W-L., Messerli, G., Trevisan, M., Seymour, M.D., Gatehouse, J.A., Villadsen, D., Smith S.M., 
Chen, J., Zeeman, S.C. and Smith A.M. (2006). Similar protein phosphatases control starch metabolism in plants and glycogen 
metabolism in mammals.J. Biol. Chem. 281, 11815-11818.
Niittylä, T., Messerli, G., Trevisan, M., Chen, J., Smith, A.M. and Zeeman, S.C. (2004). A previously unknown maltose transporter 
essential for starch degradation in leaves. Science 303, 87-89.




