Post-doc and technician positions in Plant Development at the University of
Oxford.
 
Project 1. Applications are invited for one postdoctoral and technical
position on a BBSRC-funded AAA novel genome-wide approach to
understand the genetic basis for morphological diversification of 

led by Professor Miltos Tsiantis.
 
Project description: The aim of the project is to identify genes
responsible for morphological diversification between the simple leafed
reference plant Arabidopsis thaliana and its compound leafed relative
Cardamine hirsuta. The project builds on previous research by the group
(Barkoulas, et al. Nature Genetics 40, 1136-41; Hay & Tsiantis, Nature
Genetics 38, 942-7). Proven research skills in molecular biology are
essential, and a strong background in managing high-throughput genomics
projects involving plant transformation is highly desirable.
Posts available:
1. Post doc post for 38 months: The post would suit strongly motivated
applicants with an interest in the genetics of morphological diversity.
2. Technician position: This is a 75% FTE post for up to 36 months and would
suit applicants who are interested in applying molecular biology and plant
transformation skills in a high throughput project.
 
Project 2. Applications are also invited for a 38-month postdoctoral
position on a BBSRC-funded PPPathways that limit leaflet formation
in Cardamine ,, led by Professor Miltos Tsiantis.
Project description: The aim of the project is to understand the genetic
networks that control the number, timing and position of leaflet development
in C. hirsuta; a genetically tractable compound leafed relative of the
simple leafed reference plant A. thaliana. The project builds on previous
research by the group (Barkoulas, et al. Nature Genetics 40, 1136 - 41; Hay
& Tsiantis, Nature Genetics 38, 942-7) and would suit strongly motivated
applicants with high-level developmental biology skills and an interest in
the genetics of morphological diversity. Proven research skills in
developmental genetics and molecular biology are essential, and a strong
background in plant development is highly desirable.

 Further particulars may be downloaded from the website at
 http://www.plants.ox.ac.uk/ <http://www.plants.ox.ac.uk/>
and are also available from the Administrator.
 
 For informal enquiries please contact miltos.tsiantis@plants.ox.ac.uk 
