A postdoc position is open within a collaborative project between Umea 
Plant Science Centre (UPSC) in Sweden and INRA, France. The aim of the 
project is to investigate the function of a glycosyl hydrolase family 
1 gene (PttGH1_49) in wood formation of Populus trees. PttGH1_49 was 
selected on the basis of specific expression pattern in late 
developing xylem elements of Populus wood (Genome Biology 6/4/R34), 
and is therefore believed to control either cell wall modification or 
cell death. We have constructed PttGH1_49 RNAi lines that revealed 
alterations in the FT-IR spectra of the wood. The presently announced 
project includes further wood analytics of the RNAi lines as well as 
further molecular approaches to elucidate the function of the 
PttGH1_49. The wood analytics including pyrolysis-MS is performed in 
the context of the Funcfiber programme (http://www.funcfiber.se/). 
The position is open for one year with a possible extension for a 
second year. Highly motivated applicants with a good publication 
record will be considered. The requested experimental skills include a 
solid background in molecular biology. Previous experience in wood 
analytics such as FT-IR or pyrolysis-MS is an advantage. The salary is 
15500 SEK (tax free) per month. The position is available immediately 
and applications will be reviewed until the position is filled. 
UPSC is a vibrant and international research centre within plant and 
forest experimental biology and biotechnology located in Umea, which 
is the capital of northern Sweden. Umea is an attractive university 
town with rich academic and cultural activities. 
For more information on the research program, please contact one of 
the partners of the collaborative project; Dr. Hannele Tuominen 
(Hannele.tuominen@plantphys.umu.se) or Dr. Deborah Goffner 
(goffner@scsv.ups-tlse.fr). 
Applications including detailed CV, a brief description of the 
previous work, a 
list of publications and the names of at least two referees must be 
sent by e-mail to: 
 
Hannele Tuominen 
Umea Plant Science Centre 
Department of Plant Physiology 
Umeå University 
90187 Umea, Sweden 
Hannele.tuominen@plantphys.umu.se
