Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions 
Assistant Professor 
 
Department of Plant Pathology, Physiology & Weed Science College of Agriculture & 
Life Sciences 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech) 
Blacksburg, Virginia 
 
Position Description: 
The Department of Plant Pathology, Physiology & Weed Science at Virginia Tech seeks 
applicants for a tenure track position at the Assistant Professor level.  We seek an 
ambitious and creative individual who will employ cellular, molecular, and/or genomic 
approaches to understand interactions between plants and microbes.  We are interested in 
scientists who investigate cellular biology of plant-microbe interactions, particularly 
those involving viruses.  However, we will consider any candidate with exceptional 
potential to complement our existing strengths in functional and comparative genomics of 
oömycetes, fungi and bacteria, and mechanisms of host resistance and innate immunity. 
 The successful candidate will: 1) develop an extramurally funded, internationally 
recognized research program, 2) contribute to graduate-level courses in plant-microbe 
interactions, and 3) mentor students.  The candidate will participate in a strong 
interdepartmental Molecular Plant Science graduate program.  Additional information 
can be found at http://www.ppws.vt.edu and http://www.molplantsci.org.vt.edu/.   
Applicants are to submit an online application for position #081133 at https://jobs.vt.edu/. 
 A complete application must include a cover letter, curriculum vitae, a research & 
teaching statement and names and complete contact information of three (3) references. 
 Review of applications will begin on December 15 and will continue until the position is 
filled or the search is closed. 
 
Virginia Tech has a strong commitment to the principles of diversity, inclusion, and to 
maintaining a work and learning environment that is free of all forms of discrimination. 
 As a result, this institution does not tolerate discrimination or harassment on the basis of 
age, color, disability, gender, national origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sexual 
orientation, or veteran status.  Anyone having questions concerning discrimination should 
contact the Office of Equal Opportunity. 
 
Responsibilities: 
o  Develop and maintain a productive, internationally recognized research program 
through extramural 
funding 
o  Contribute to graduate courses in molecular plant-microbe interactions and plant 
pathology 
o  Advise and mentor undergraduate and graduate students, as well as post doctoral 
fellows 
o  Participate in department, college, university, and professional service and outreach 
activities 
o  Adhere to the responsibilities of the faculty as described by the Faculty Handbook 
(www.provost.vt.edu/fhb.html) 
 
Qualification/Requirements: 
o  An earned doctorate in the Life Sciences and postdoctoral with demonstrated 
experience in molecular and/or cellular aspects of plant-microbe interactions 
o  A record of publication indicative of the potential to establish and maintain a 
productive research program 
o  Ability to work within a team environment 
o  Commitment and sensitivity to issues of diversity in the campus community 
 
Preferred Qualifications: 
o  Documented success in attracting extramural research funding o  Shared interests with 
other scientists studying aspects of plant biology and infectious disease across the 
University 
o  Expertise with cell biological aspects of plant-microbe interactions, particularly those 
involving viruses 
o   Demonstrated teaching expertise 
o  Ability to work with a student body from diverse backgrounds 
 
Virginia Tech is the recipient of the National Science Foundation ADVANCE 
Institutional Transformation Award to increase the participation of women in academic 
science and engineering careers.
