FACULTY POSITIONS in COMPUTATIONAL and EVOLUTIONARY 
BIOLOGY
University of Minnesota
 
   The Department of Plant Biology at the University of Minnesota-Twin Cities invites 
applications for two tenure-track Assistant Professorships.  Appointment at a more senior 
level may be considered for exceptional candidates with records of outstanding 
accomplishment. The successful candidates will develop strong, extramurally funded 
research programs, contribute to the teaching missions of the College of Biological 
Sciences, advise students and post-docs, and participate in professional service. Review 
of applications will commence November 8, 2008.
   Computational or Systems Biology. The successful candidate will carry out 
innovative research using computational approaches to address fundamental questions in 
biology of plants or plant-associated organisms. Examples of potential research include, 
but are not limited to: genetic or metabolic network inference; structural, comparative or 
evolutionary genomics; modeling of complex biological systems. To apply, please submit 
a letter of application, a curriculum vitae, statements of research and teaching interests, 
and names and addresses of three professional references to: Dr. Nevin D. Young, Chair, 
Computational/Systems Biology Search Committee, Department of Plant Biology, Univ. 
of MN, 250 BioScience Center, 1445 Gortner Ave, St. Paul, MN 55108. Inquiries and 
electronic applications may be sent to e-mail: plntcomp@umn.edu.
   Evolutionary Biology. We seek an innovative, productive scientist conducting 
research on plants or fungi.  We welcome applicants working in any area of evolutionary 
biology and are particularly interested in research exploring the interface between 
organismal and molecular/genomic approaches to study evolutionary processes. To 
apply, please send a letter of application, a curriculum vitae, statements of research and 
teaching interests, and names and addresses of three professional references to: Dr. Peter 
Tiffin, Search Committee Chair, Dept. of Plant Biology, 250 BioScience Center, 1445 
Gortner Avenue, Univ. of MN, St. Paul, MN, 55108, USA. Inquiries and electronic 
applications may be sent to email: evol_search@umn.edu.
   The Department of Plant Biology expertise spans evolutionary biology, genetics and 
genomics, molecular biology, and systematics. Both new positions provide opportunity 
for significant collaboration and include access to students in multiple graduate programs. 
The University of Minnesota-Twin Cities Campus has extensive facilities for high 
performance computing, visualization, genomics, proteomics and metabolomics, as well 
excellent resources for plant research including field, greenhouse, herbarium, and 
laboratory facilities. It is located in the heart of the Minneapolis-Saint Paul metropolitan 
area, a region rich in cultural and natural attractions, with a diverse economy. For 
additional information about the position requirements, the department and its context, 
please see http://www.cbs.umn.edu/plantbio/.
The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer.

