A postdoctoral research position in biological informatics at Cold 
Spring Harbor Laboratory is available to a motiviated scientist who is 
interested in applying computational approaches to manipulating and 
analyzing large molecular and genetic datasets. The succesful 
candidate will join an ongoing NSF-funded project studying replication 
origins and the overall organizational structure of plant chromosomes 
using high-density microarrays and next-generation sequencing 
technologies. 
 
The successful candidate will be responsible for developing new 
algorithms, tools, and scripts for analysis and interpretation of the 
high-throughput data components of this project. Research may include, 
but is not restricted to, such topics as cluster computing, machine 
learning systems, statistical modeling applications, and genome 
annotation tools. 
 
Candidates are required to have a Ph.D. in Genetics, Plant Biology, 
Biochemistry and/or Computational Biology (or equivalent). Ideally, 
they will have a good understanding of statistics and experience with 
at least one scripting language (such as Perl or Python), the R 
programming environment, and relational databases. Previous experience 
with microarrays or high-throughput sequencing is desirable but not 
required, as is a general interest in chromosome biology and 
epigenetics. 
 
Funding for this position is secured for two years, beginning as early 
as February of 2008. However, the successful candidate is expected and 
encouraged to apply for all eligible fellowships. 
 
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory is a world-renowned research and 
educational institution with programs in cancer, neuroscience, plant 
biology, genomics and bioinformatics. The Laboratory is recognized 
internationally for its excellence in research and educational 
activities. Candidates will have opportunities to interact with and 
participate in advanced research in molecular biology, genetics, 
bioinformatics, and computational biology, and will have access to 
robust information technology resources as well as a high-performance 
computing cluster. 
 
Review of applications will begin immediately and continue until the 
position has been filled. Please send CV, a statement of research 
interests, and 3 reference contacts to: 
 
Matthew Vaughn, Ph.D. 
Research Assistant Professor 
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 
Delbruck Building 
1 Bungtown Road 
Cold Spring Harbor, NY 11724 USA 

email: vaughn@cshl.edu
tel: (516) 367-8808 
fax: (516) 367-8369
