DESCRIPTION: 
Epigenetic variation, which is heritable variation that is not due to sequence changes, has been 
observed to underly a number of biological phenomena. However, the prevalence and heritable 
behavior of epigenetic variation is not yet well understood. I am recruiting a postdoctoral fellow for 
my Computational Genomics group at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory to work on a project which 
will study the prevalence, heritability and potential consequences of epigenetic variation in maize. 
As an ideal candidate for this position, you'll be a talented, self-motivated biologist with 
experience at the bench but who loves bioinformatics. You will be interested in applying 
computational approaches to manipulating and analyzing large molecular and genetic data sets, 
and in exploring new methods and technologies as they emerge. Scientifically, you should have 
an interest in aspects of epigenetics, RNA interference, and/or genomic biology. 
 
QUALIFICATIONS: 
You will have a Ph.D. in Genetics, Plant Biology, Biochemistry, or Bioinformatics (or equivalent 
specialization) and I expect you to have a working knowledge of statistics as it applies to the 
design and interpretation of large, multifactorial experiments.  You need to be very comfortable 
using a Linux/UNIX environment, and along with that, you should be proficient in a scripting 
language like Perl or Python. Experience with microarrays or quantitative sequencing is 
preferable, but not required. Moving beyond the technical, you need to be able to work 
independently and have excellent problem-solving, communication, and teamwork skills. I also 
require that you have at least one first-author publication in English. 
 
INSTITUTE BACKGROUND: 
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory is a unique and world-renowned research and educational 
institution with programs in plant biology, cancer, neuroscience, genomics and bioinformatics. 
The Laboratory is recognized internationally for its excellence in research and educational 
activities. A successful candidate will have opportunities to interact with and participate in 
advanced research in molecular biology, genetics, bioinformatics, and computational biology, and 
will have access to robust information technology resources including high-performance cluster 
computing resources. 
 
HOW TO APPLY: 
Review of applications will begin immediately and continue until the position has been filled. 
Please send CV, a statement of research interests and accomplishments, and the names of 3 
references to: 
 
Matthew Vaughn, Ph.D. 
Research Assistant Professor 
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 
1 Bungtown Road 
Williams #5 
Cold Spring Harbor, NY 11724 USA 
 
web: http://hispaniola.cshl.edu/vaughn/ 
phone: (516) 367-8808 
email: vaughn@cshl.edu
