Postdoctoral Position in Plant-Microbe Interactions

Postdoctoral Position in Plant-Microbe Interactions: a post-doctoral research associate position is 
immediately available in the laboratory of Dr. Paola Veronese, North Carolina State University, 
Center for Integrated Fungal Research, Raleigh, NC USA. 

Qualifications: Ph.D. in molecular biology/genetics or related field. Responsibilities: A post-
doctoral position is immediately available in Dr. Veronese laboratory to conduct research on the 
molecular genetics of plant interaction with phytopathogenic fungi of the genus Verticillium, causal 
agents of vascular diseases. The incumbent will be assigned projects aiming at the identification of 
the genetic and molecular basis of host defense and fungal pathogenicity mechanisms. In particular, 
he/she will study the interaction of model plants such as Arabidopsis thaliana and tomato with V. 
dahliae and V. longisporum by applying functional genomics approaches. The successful candidate is 
required to have practical expertise in PCR-based technologies including molecular cloning and gene 
expression analysis. Other specific molecular techniques include construct assembly, plant and fungal 
transformation, nucleic acid analysis, protein expression. Familiarity with commonly used bio-
informatics tools, strong ability to work as a team member, and excellent oral and written 
communication skills are required. The position has secured funding for a minimum of two years and 
the continuity will depend on her/his successful performance. Salary: Commensurate with experience. 

Application: Applicants should send by e-mail their CV, a brief description of past research and 
career goals, and the names and contact information of three references to: Dr. Paola Veronese, 
paola_veronese@ncsu.edu, Center for Integrated Fungal Research, Department of Plant Pathology, 
North Carolina State University, Campus Box 7251, Raleigh, NC 27695-7251, tel. 919.513.8219. 
Closing Date: January 30, 2011 or until suitable candidate is found.

