Postdoctoral positions are available in the laboratory of Paul Verslues at 
the Institute of Plant and Microbial Biology, Academia Sinica, Taipei, 
Taiwan.  The laboratory’s interest are in plant metabolism and abiotic 
stress (more information can be found at 
http://ipmb.sinica.edu.tw/faculty/pverslues.html).  We are particularly 
focused on the regulation of proline metabolism and stress-induced 
proline accumulation, osmoregulation and related stress/ABA sensing 
and signaling mechanisms.  Some projects that are available: 
proteomics based work to identify proteins that interact with and 
regulate the key enzymes of proline metabolism; map-based cloning 
and analysis of mutants found to alter stress-induced proline 
accumulation (see Verslues and Bray 2004, Plant Physiology 136: 
2831-2842); and reverse genetic analysis of potential osmoregulatory 
genes.  Candidates should have experience in commonly used 
molecular biology techniques and in one or more of the following areas: 
plant physiology and stress physiology; proteomics; or biochemistry, 
particularly protein interaction and enzyme kinetics.  Applicants with a 
quantitative aspect in their research background are encouraged to 
apply.  

The working language of the laboratory is English and international 
applicants are welcome.  Institute staff are available to assist 
candidates with the initial steps in establishing themselves in Taiwan.  
The Institute of Plant and Microbial Biology has excellent core facilities in 
cell biology, proteomics, gene expression analysis (qPCR, Affymetrix 
chip and microarray services) and transgenic plant production.  
Additional life science research institutes on the Academia Sinica 
campus provide still more research resources.  IPMB also hosts two 
annual plant science symposiums and a regular seminar series with 
international speakers providing opportunities for connections to the 
broader plant science community and participates in the Taiwan 
International Graduate Program (http://tigp.sinica.edu.tw).

Although all applicants will be considered, the highest priority will be 
given to candidates who would be competitive for postdoctoral 
fellowships awarded from Academia Sinica.  This includes a solid 
overall research background as well as at least one or two significant 
publications.

To apply, please send a complete CV, names and email addresses of 
2-3 references, and a statement of research accomplishments and 
interests and future goals.  Application materials can be submitted via 
email to:  paulv@gate.sinica.edu.tw
