Postdoctoral positions at the Institute of Plant and Microbial Biology, Academia 
Sinica

Postdoctoral positions are available in the laboratory of Paul Verslues.  The 
laboratory’s interests are in plant metabolism and abiotic stress (more information can 
be found at http://ipmb.sinica.edu.tw/faculty/pverslues.html).  We are particularly 
focused on water stress regulation of proline metabolism, related stress and ABA 
signaling mechanisms, and osmoregulation.  Candidates should have experience in 
one or more of the following areas: molecular biology, plant physiology and stress 
physiology; biochemistry including protein interaction and enzymology; or cell 
biology.    

International applicants are welcome and institute staff are available to assist 
candidates with the initial steps in establishing themselves in Taiwan.  The Institute 
of Plant and Microbial Biology has excellent core facilities in cell biology, proteomics, 
gene expression analysis (qPCR, Affymetrix chip and microarray services) and 
transgenic plant production.  Additional life science research institutes on the 
Academia Sinica campus provide still more research resources.  IPMB also hosts 
two annual plant science symposiums and a regular seminar series providing 
opportunities for connections to the broader plant science community.  IPMB also 
participates in the Taiwan International Graduate Program (http://tigp.sinica.edu.tw).

Academia Sinica as a whole is interested in recruiting international postdoctoral 
fellows (see advertisement which recently appeared in Science 19 December 2008) 
Although not required for appointment, well qualified candidates can also apply for 
individual postdoctoral fellowships from Academia Sinica.
 
To apply, please send a complete CV, names and email addresses of 2-3 references, 
and a statement of research accomplishments, interests and future goals.  Application 
materials can be submitted via email to:  paulv@gate.sinica.edu.tw
Review of applications will start in January-February, 2009 and continue until the 
positions are filled.

