POSITION: Anheuser-Busch and Arkansas Wholesalers Professorship in Plant Molecular 
Genetics
APPOINTMENT: Twelve month, tenure-track Associate- or Full-Professor (90% research and 
10% teaching) in the Division of Agriculture and the Dale Bumpers College of Agricultural, Food, 
and Life Sciences at the University of Arkansas.  Position will be located on the Fayetteville 
campus and departmental affiliation is negotiable.
SALARY: Commensurate with qualifications and experience with an excellent benefits and 
retirement package.
DATE AVAILABLE: January 1, 2010
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES: The University of Arkansas seeks qualified candidates for a 
professorship endowed by Anheuser Busch and the Walton Family Foundation.  The successful 
candidate will join plant biologists in providing University-wide leadership and establishing 
excellence in rice genomics.  The incumbent will work closely with a state-wide team of molecular 
biologists, crop breeders, physiologists, entomologists, and pathologists and participate in the 
Cell and Molecular Biology interdepartmental graduate program.  The successful candidate will 
apply state-of-the-art methods of plant genome analyses and genetics.    Responses to biotic or 
abiotic stresses, environmental or developmental changes, metabolic pathways, or genomic 
contributions to value-added traits are among the possible topics for a research focus.  The 
faculty member will develop and teach graduate courses and develop a nationally competitive 
research program.
QUALIFICATIONS:  A Ph.D. in a plant molecular biology or closely related-discipline and 
demonstrated excellence in grantsmanship and interdisciplinary research are required.   Ability to 
effectively communicate with professional, student and stakeholder audiences is essential.
APPLICATION: Review of materials will begin November 1, 2009, and will continue until a 
suitable candidate is found. Submit a complete application consisting of a cover letter stating 
research interests and teaching philosophy; curriculum vitae; academic transcripts; and the 
names and addresses of three references to: Ms. Joda Parent, Department of Crop, Soil and 
Environmental Sciences, 115 Plant Science Bldg., University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR 
72701.  Questions should be directed to the Search Committee Co-Chairs:
       Dr. Ken Korth                                     Dr. Vibha Srivastava
       Phone:  (479) 575-5191                      Phone:  (479) 575-4872
       Email:  (kkorth@uark.edu)                 Email:  (vibhas@uark.edu)
 

