Postdoctoral Research Opportunities

Department of Biochemistry
& Molecular Biology
University of Massachusetts, Amherst MA, USA

	
POSTDOCTORAL POSITIONS in the Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology at the University of 
Massachusetts, Amherst MA, USA are available starting in 2011 in several project areas depending on 
candidate's interest and expertise: 1) Chaperone activity of small heat shock proteins - involves 
identification of in vivo substrates of sHSPs in Arabidopsis, work with sHSP transgenic and mutant 
plants, biochemical analyses of sHSP activity in vitro, genetic dissection of structure/function 
relationships in a cyanobacterium, and collaborations in NMR and mass spectrometry. 2) 
Translational control in response to stress - involves ribosomal profiling of transcripts using 
nextgen sequencing, analysis of translation factor mutants and biochemistry of purified translation 
factors.  3) Control of nitric oxide homeostasis by S-nitrosoglutathione reductase - involves 
analysis of Arabidopsis GSNOR mutant phenotypes (including fertility defects), biochemistry of NO 
modifications and tests of redox regulation of GSNOR activity. 4) Molecular chaperone activity of 
Hsp101 in the plant cytosol and chloroplasts - involves substrate identification, isolation of 
suppressor mutants and opportunity to search for prions in plants. Representative publications: 
PNAS 106:15604 (2009); JBC 283:26634 (2008); Plant Cell 20:786 (2008); Plant J 49:115 (2007); 
JBC 279:7566 (2004).

Candidate must have a PhD in biochemistry or related field and excellent background in biochemical 
and molecular techniques. Experience with microbial or Arabidopsis genetics and protein purification 
a plus. Salary commensurate with qualifications and health insurance paid.  Send curriculum vitae, 
statement of research accomplishments, career objectives and project interest, and have three letters 
of reference sent electronically to: Dr. Elizabeth Vierling, Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry, 
The University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721. USA. E-mail: vierling@u.arizona.edu.  Note: German 
citizens will have the opportunity to apply for partial support from the Alexander von Humboldt 
Foundation.	

