Postdoctoral position in chromatin remodeling

A postdoctoral position is available in the laboratory of Doris Wagner at the 
University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia 
(http://www.bio.upenn.edu/faculty/wagner/) effective immediately for a highly 
motivated scientist interested in studying *the role of chromatin remodeling 
ATPases* in plant development.

The three-year funded position is aimed at identification of the direct targets 
of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling ATPase SPLAYED through global binding 
studies (ChIP on chip) and at elucidating the changes in nucleosome position 
and/or occupancy that result from the activity of SPLAYED and related ATPases. 
The Wagner laboratory is a highly interactive group of scientists located in a 
brand new Biology building on the vibrant University of Pennsylvania campus, 
which features a strong chromatin research community.

The ideal applicant should have prior experience with molecular biology 
techniques (ChIP, real-time PCR) . Knowledge of plant development is desirable. 
If you are interested in this position, please send (by e-mail) a coverletter 
stating your research interests, a curriculum vitae, and names as well as e-mail 
addresses of three references to:
Doris Wagner
wagnerdo@sas.upenn.edu

/_Related Publications:_/
Kwon, C. S. and Wagner, D. (2007). Unwinding chromatin – a few genes at a time. 
Trends
Genet.
Bezhani, S., et al. (2007). Unique, shared and redundant roles for the 
Arabidopsis SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling ATPases BRAHMA and SPLAYED. Plant Cell 
19, 403-416.
Kwon, C.S., et al. (2006). A role for chromatin remodeling in regulation of CUC 
gene expression in the Arabidopsis cotyledon boundary. Development 133, 3223-
3230.
Su, Y., et al. (2006). The N-terminal ATPase AT-hook-containing region of the 
Arabidopsis chromatin-remodeling protein SPLAYED is sufficient for biological 
activity. Plant J 46, 685-699.
Kwon, C.S., Chen, C., and Wagner, D. (2005). WUSCHEL is a primary target for 
transcriptional regulation by SPLAYED in dynamic control of stem cell fate in 
Arabidopsis. Genes Dev 19, 992-1003.
Wagner, D. (2003). Chromatin regulation of plant development. Curr Opin Plant 
Biol 6, 20-28.

/_Background:_/
Chromatin physically restricts accessibility of the information encoded in the 
genome to regulatory proteins such as transcription factors. Chromatin 
remodeling ATPases use the energy derived from ATP hydrolysis to change genome 
accessibility by altering nucleosome position or by transiently removing 
nucleosomes. The in vivo roles of these remodelers, including those of the 
important SWI/SNF family, were recently described using viable SWI/SNF ATPase 
null mutants in plants. These, as well as genome wide expression studies have 
implicated chromatin remodeling ATPases in the regulation of many important 
developmental pathways. In each pathway they appear to regulate expression of 
very few key developmental regulators.



