Two postdoctoral positions are available at University of Nebraska, Lincoln 
in the Walia lab. 

1. The goal of the project is to study the epigenetic regulation of stress 
response during seed development in rice. Click here for more information: ( 
http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1121648). The candidate 
will use genomics and epigenetic approaches to identify and characterize 
candidate genes regulating stress tolerance during seed development. 
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Plant Biology, Cell Biology, Plant 
Genetics, or a closely related field at the time hiring. The candidate will 
work as part of a team in a collaborative environment. Experience in 
ChIP-seq, *in situ* hybridization, LCM, NGS analysis, transgenic and mutant 
analysis is highly desirable. Publications record is required. Funding is 
available for 3 years. Initial appointment will be for one year and is 
renewable for up to 3 years based on satisfactory performance. Salary is 
commensurate with experience and qualifications. 

2. A postdoctoral position is available in Walia lab to study the genetic 
and physiological mechanism of salt tolerance in rice. Click here for 
project description: ( 
http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1238125). The project 
involves using automated image-based phenotyping, transcriptomics, and 
genetic analysis to identify novel sources of salinity tolerance in rice. 
This position presents opportunities to work in a group with quantitative 
geneticists, bioinformatics and image informatics experts. Applicants must 
have a Ph.D. in Plant Biology/Physiology, Plant Genetics, or a closely 
related field at the time hiring. Experience in next generation sequencing, 
association/QTL mapping, programming in R/perl/python, handling of large 
populations and strong statistical skills is highly desirable. Demonstrated 
ability to publish research findings is required. Funding is available for 
3 years. Initial appointment will be for one year and is renewable for up 
to 3 years based on satisfactory performance. Salary is commensurate with 
experience and qualifications. 

Interested candidate should contact Dr. Harkamal Walia (click the link for 
contact information http://agronomy.unl.edu/walia). The email should 
include the following: (1) CV, (2) publications or in press articles, and 
(3) contact information including phone numbers for at least 3 references, 
(4) the position for which the candidate is applying. Both positions are 
available immediately and are open until filled. 