Post-doc Positions in Computational Biology at University of Arizona

Description:
The laboratory of Dr. Xiangfeng Wang invites applications for post-doc positions in School of Plant 
Sciences at University of Arizona. The research interests in the Lab focus on developing computational 
models and bioinformatic tools to interpret and integrate various epigenome and transcriptome next-
generation sequencing data in plants, mainly in maize and rice. The successful candidate will be 
expected to utilize bioinformatic tools and develop original algorithms for a better understanding of 
the epigenetic mechanisms underlying the plant seed and endosperm development. The recruited postdocs 
will participate in two ongoing projects:

1. Identification of transcription factors in maize seed development
We are currently using Illumina RNA-seq to profile the transcriptome in maize seeds. The goal is to 
identify the important transcription factors controlling the endosperm development. The significance 
of this project is to fundamentally improve the seed yield, human nutrition, biomass and bioenergy 
production. From the methodological perspective, the candidate will design algorithms to module the 
regulatory network by integrating the gene expression data and epigenomic data. We will use nucleosome 
dynamics to improve the discovery of novel TF and regulatory motifs. For details, please check 
"Research" in Wang Lab website.

2. Epigenomic regulation of maize endosperm development
We are also producing ChIP-Seq data for a combination of activating and silencing epigenetic marks in 
maize endosperm development. In addition to the biological aim of understanding the epigenetic mechanism 
underlying the endosperm development, we are also interested on developing new computational approaches 
to: 1) improve gene prediction using activating epigenetic marks; 2) genome-wide search for the 
epigenetically imprinted genes by an innovative strategy. The original algorithms will be finally 
implemented as bioinformatic tools and database resources for the gene imprinting research in other 
plant organisms. For details, please check "Research" in Wang Lab website.

Requirements:
The ideal applicants should:
Have Ph.D in Bioinformatics, Computer Science, Biology or other related fields.
Have strong programming skills on at least one programming language of Python, Perl or R.
Have experiences in analyzing microarray, ChIP-Chip, ChIP-Seq and RNA-Seq data or relevant computational 
genomics experiences.

How to Apply:
The interested applicants could send his C.V, reprints of first author publications, and names of three 
references to xwang1@cals.arizona.edu. At the same time, the applicant should also apply online at 
http://www.hr.arizona.edu/ by searching the job number 46179. More information about the Lab is available 
at http://xwang.openwetware.org/.

