 
-------------------------- 
 
Plant Breeding, Genetics and Biotechnology 
Molecular Biologist 
 
 
IRRI is seeking a molecular biologist to join its internationally 
recruited staff to lead research on rice transformation. The position 
will be based in the Institute’s Plant Breeding, Genetics and 
Biotechnology Division with an initial appointment of 3 years and 
renewable for subsequent multi-year contracts. 
 
 
Responsibilities 
The primary responsibilities will be to 1) apply innovative molecular 
tools and approaches for the development of transgenic products 
carrying agronomically and nutritionally important genes and other 
value-added traits; 2) establish high-throughput transformation 
systems; 3) work with breeders and other teams to link the above 
research outputs to breeding and gene discovery programs; 4) 
collaborate with national agricultural research and extension systems 
(NARES) for training in rice transformation and in developing, 
evaluating, and sharing transgenic products; and 5) establish 
collaborations with advanced research institutes for applying current 
advances in molecular biology in transformation research. 
 
 
Qualifications 
Applicants should have a PhD in genetics, molecular biology, or a 
related field, with at least 5 years of post-PhD experience. 
Candidates should have a strong background in molecular biology and 
transformation, and with a proven record of innovative contributions. 
Also required are: 1) experience working with governmental 
institutions in field testing of GM crops, 2) sound interpersonal and 
communication skills, and 3) demonstrated ability to work in a multi- 
disciplinary environment and with colleagues in NARES. 
 
 
Perquisites and IRRI environment 
IRRI, located at Los Baños, 70 kilometers south of Manila, 
Philippines, offers salary and perquisites that are internationally 
competitive including support for education of children, car and 
housing at reasonable rental rates, and medical and retirement 
benefits. IRRI provides a gender-sensitive environment and welcomes 
women applicants. Citizens of developing countries, particularly rice- 
producing countries, are encouraged to apply. The Institute is 
committed to assisting families in making personal and, to the extent 
possible, professional adjustments to the local environment. IRRI has 
an accredited international school (pre-K to grade 5) and, excellent 
preparatory schools for younger children are available locally. 
 
Applications 
Applications will be received up until 15 February 2008. 
 
Please submit your application online at www.irri.org/jobs/adda.asp 
or send (preferably via e-mail) a comprehensive curriculum vitae and 
names and email addresses of three referees to: 
 
Ms. Selene M. Ocampo 
Officer-HR Coordination 
International Rice Research Institute 
DAPO Box 7777, 
Metro Manila, Philippines 
Tel: (63-2) 891-1292/580-5600 
Fax: (63-2) 580-5699 
Email: IRRIRecruitment@cgiar.org 
 
Only short-listed candidates will be notified
