PhD and postdoc positions in bioinformatics 

New sequencing technologies are revolutionizing both bottom-up and top-down 
approaches in biology. The Weigel lab has been a leading early adopter of these 
technologies and was one of the first in Europe to extensively exploit the Illumina 
sequencing platform (since 2007). We have developed a variety of analysis tools based on 
our SHORE pipeline, and are using these for diverse applications, from genome sequencing 
and epigenetic profiling to transcriptome and transcription factor binding studies, in 
bacteria, animals and plants. Two positions are available both for developing new 
algorithms and strategies for primary analysis of second- and soon third-generation 
sequencing technologies, and for using these data to study a wide array of biological 
questions. The flagship project in this area is the 1001 Genomes project for Arabidopsis 
thaliana (http://1001genomes.org), which we have initiated and for which we have 
already delivered over 80 genomes.

We are also taking a leading role in having the genomes of several members of the 
Brassicaceae, to which the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana belongs, sequenced. Our first 
efforts in this area resulted in reference genome sequences for Arabidopsis lyrata and 
Capsella rubella . One position is available for comparative genomics studies that will take 
advantage of these data sets.

Finally, automated image analyses are beginning to play an important role in high-
throughput phenotyping projects aimed at linking genotypic to phenotypic diversity. One 
position is available in this area.

Candidates will have knowledge and interest in sequence and genome analyses, and 
experience in programming (PERL/PYTHON, Java, SQL, C/C++) and in the use of Linux OS. 

We are working closely with other groups in Tübingen that are primarily informatically 
oriented. These include Daniel Huson at the University Tübingen, Gunnar Rätsch at the 
Friedrich Miescher Laboratory and Bernhard Schölkopf at the Max Planck Institute for 
Biological Cybernetics on the same campus, as well as Karsten Borgwardt, who heads a 
departmental research group jointly sponsored with Bernhard Schölkopf. Our work in this 
and other areas routinely results in high-profile publications (e.g., Maizel et al., 
Science 2005; Wigge et al., Science 2005; Clark et al., Science 2007; Sureshkumar et al., 
Science 2009; Wang et al., Cell 2009; Ossowski et al., Science 2010; Todesco et al., 
Nature in press), and presents extraordinary opportunities for talented and ambitious 
students and postdocs. Additional information on the group, the institute, and Tübingen 
can be found on our website (http://weigelworld.org). 

Please send applications, with a statement of purpose, names of references, and the subject 
line <bioinformatics posting> to

Detlef Weigel 
Director, MPI for Developmental Biology 
weigel@tue.mpg.de
 
