Postdoctoral position in embryonic root formation at Wageningen University 

An NWO-funded 3-year post-doctoral position is available in the Weijers lab to study mechanisms of 
cell identity specification and cell-cell communication in embryonic root formation in Arabidopsis. 

Our lab studies the earliest events in the formation of the root meristem in the early Arabidopsis 
embryo. We have previously shown that the auxin-dependent transcription factor MONOPTEROS (MP) plays 
a critical role in this process, in part by promoting cell-cell communication (Weijers et al., Dev. 
Cell 2006). Recently, we have identified MP target genes that mediate MP function in this process 
(Schlereth et al., Nature 2010). The post-doctoral fellow is expected to follow up on this recent 
work using a combination of transcriptomics, proteomics, microscopy and genetics approaches. 

We are looking for a motivated candidate with a strong background in developmental or cellular 
biology, or a related discipline, as demonstrated by publications in international peer-reviewed 
journals. Experience with transcriptomics is desirable. The candidate is expected to show 
independence in developing part of this project, and to contribute to the supervision of MSc and PhD 
students. Language and communication skills are of critical importance. 

The Weijers lab (http://www.bic.wur.nl/UK/Research/Plant+Development/) is situated in the Laboratory 
of Biochemistry at Wageningen University, and has direct access to state-of-the-art facilities for 
genomics, microscopy and proteomics. Wageningen University offers an international community of 
scientists in all disciplines of life sciences. Research in our group is embedded in the Graduate 
School Experimental Plant Sciences, that offers an attractive curriculum of courses and workshops. 

The position is available immediately. Applications will be accepted until the position has been 
filled. Please send inquiries for information or your application, including motivation letter, CV 
and contact information for 2-3 references) to: 

Dr. Dolf Weijers 
dolf.weijers@wur.nl
