ASSISTANT or ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR 
KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY 
PLANT MOLECULAR BIOLOGY 
 
The Division of Biology at Kansas State University invites 
applications for a tenure-track Assistant or Associate Professor 
position beginning in the 2008/2009 academic year.  We seek an 
individual who will establish an outstanding, extramurally funded 
research program within the general area of plant molecular biology. 
The successful candidate will complement existing strengths in 
molecular, cellular, and plant biology on campus, and will also 
contribute to graduate and undergraduate instruction to a diverse 
population in the Division of Biology.  Minimum requirements for an 
appointment at the Assistant Professor rank include a Ph.D. degree and 
post-doctoral experience.  Minimum requirements for an appointment at 
the Associate Professor rank include a Ph.D. degree and post-doctoral 
experience, plus an independent, nationally recognized research 
program, with current extramural funding, and demonstrated excellence 
in teaching.  The position includes a competitive salary and start-up 
package.  The Division of Biology (http://www.ksu.edu/biology) 
features a diverse, collegial, and interactive faculty who 
collectively bring in over $10 million per year in extramural research 
funding, and includes a research and graduate training program in 
Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology (http://www.ksu.edu/ 
mcdb).  KSU is a major research university with excellent research 
facilities, and is located in Manhattan, a pleasant college town of 
roughly 50,000 people in the rolling Flint Hills region of northeast 
Kansas. 
 
Applicants should indicate rank at which they wish to be considered, 
and should submit (either electronically or by mail) a comprehensive 
curriculum vitae, statement of research and teaching interests, 
representative publications, and have three letters of reference sent 
to:  Dr. Ruth Welti, Chair; Plant Molecular Biology Search Committee; 
Division of Biology; 116 Ackert Hall; Kansas State University; 
Manhattan, KS 66506-4901.  Email: kbiology@ksu.edu.  Review of 
applications will begin December 10, 2007 and continue until the 
position is filled.  KSU is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action 
Employer, and actively seeks diversity among its employees.
