TWO TENURE-TRACK POSITIONS in CELL and DEVELOPMENTAL BIOLOGY

 

The Department of Biology at McGill University invites applications for
two positions in cell and developmental biology. Candidates using
genetically well-characterized animal, plant, or fungal model systems
are particularly encouraged to apply, as are applicants focusing on
subcellular structures using advanced imaging and microscopy techniques
or single-molecule manipulations.

 

The successful candidates will be joining the Developmental Biology
Research Initiative (DBRI), a dynamic, interactive group of researchers
working on a range of subjects in yeast, C. elegans, Drosophila,
Xenopus, mice, and Arabidopsis (website:
http://www.biology.mcgill.ca/DBRI/dbri_home.htm) The DBRI has completed
a $19.8 million infrastructure renovation and renewal project, and is an
integral part of the McGill University Life Sciences Research Complex.
The successful candidates will be provided with ample research space in
the new Bellini Life Sciences Building which will open in May 2008. We
anticipate that these positions will be filled at the ASSISTANT
PROFESSOR (tenure track) level, but applications from more established
candidates may be considered for recruitment at the ASSOCIATE or FULL
PROFESSOR rank. Competitive startup and equipment funding packages will
be available. The successful candidate is expected to contribute to
undergraduate and graduate teaching in the Department and to maintain an
externally funded research program.

 

Applicants should possess a Ph.D. degree and significant postdoctoral
experience resulting in research publications. Persons wishing to be
considered for these positions should forward curriculum vitae, a
statement of research interests, a statement of teaching interests,
copies of major publications, and arrange to have three letters of
reference submitted directly to: Cell and Developmental Biology Search,
c/o Ms. Zabrina Kadkhodayan, Department of Biology, McGill University,
1205 Docteur Penfield Avenue, Montreal, Quebec, H3A 1B1, Canada The
application deadline is 10 December 2007.

 

In accordance with Canadian immigration regulations, this advertisement
is directed in the first instance to Canadian citizens and landed
immigrants, however, all qualified candidates are encouraged to apply

 
