Postdoctoral Associate

The Parasitic Plant Genome Project
Virginia Tech, Blacksburg VA

A postdoctoral position is available immediately to study the genomics of parasitism in plants.  
The research will focus on the non-photosynthetic, obligate parasitic plant Orobanche ramosa.  
The work is part of an NSF-funded Plant Genome project to sequence and characterize ESTs 
from three related genera of parasitic plants (Orobanche, Striga, and Triphysaria) with the 
objective of understanding the genetic changes associated with the evolutionary transition from 
autotrophy to heterotrophy in plants (http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do? 
AwardNumber=0701748).  Arabidopsis will be used as the host for growing O. ramosa so that 
host sequences can be subtracted from those datasets in which the parasitic organ (the 
haustorium) is physically embedded in the host root. 

The successful applicant should be a highly motivated individual with a Ph.D. in plant science or 
related field with emphasis on molecular biology.  The applicant should have experience 
isolating and purifying RNA, and either existing knowledge of, or strong interest in learning, 
bioinformatics.   Experience in gene cloning, plant transformation, and gene silencing is a plus.  
The applicant will be expected to demonstrate creativity in framing and answering new questions 
enabled by the data, and will have opportunity for professional growth and leadership.  Ability to 
work well as a team member with others in the lab and the larger project is essential.  Familiarity 
with parasitic plants is an advantage, but not required.

The Westwood laboratory is located in Latham Hall, a newly constructed and equipped facility 
housing a dynamic community of researchers working in the molecular plant sciences.  The 
position pays a starting annual salary of $36,000 with benefits and has a duration of two years.  
Preference will be given to applicants who can start work on or before May 1, 2008.
For a complete job description and application instructions go to www.jobs.vt.edu, posting 
#071097. Virginia Tech is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Institution.

