Two Tenure Track Positions in Cell and Developmental Biology

The Department of Biology at McGill University invites applications for
two positions in Cell and Developmental Biology. Candidates using fungal
(budding or fission yeast) or genetically well-characterized
non-mammalian model systems are particularly encouraged to apply, as are
applicants focusing on subcellular structures using advanced imaging and
microscopy techniques or single-molecule manipulations. 
The successful candidates will be joining the Developmental Biology
Research Initiative (DBRI), a dynamic, interactive group of researchers
working on a range of subjects in yeast, C. elegans, Drosophila,
Xenopus, Arabidopsis and other model organisms
(http://www.biology.mcgill.ca/DBRI/dbri_home.htm). The DBRI is
completing a $19.8M infrastructure renovation and renewal project, and
is an integral part of the McGill University Life Sciences Research
Complex. Ample newly renovated or newly constructed laboratory and
office space will be provided to the successful candidates. We
anticipate that these positions will be filled at the Assistant
Professor (tenure-track) level, but applications from more established
candidates may be considered for recruitment at the Associate or Full
Professor rank. Competitive start-up and equipment funding packages will
be available. The successful candidate is expected to contribute to
undergraduate and graduate teaching in the department and to maintain an
externally funded research program
Applicants should possess a Ph. D. degree and significant postdoctoral
experience resulting in research publications. Persons wishing to be
considered for these positions should forward a curriculum vitae, a
statement of research interests, a statement of teaching interests,
copies of major publications and arrange to have three letters of
reference submitted directly to: Cell and Developmental Biology Search,
c/o Ms. Zabrina Kadkhodayan, Department of Biology, McGill University,
1205 Docteur Penfield Ave., Montreal, Quebec, H3A 1B1, Canada The
application deadline is 31 December 2006
In accordance with Canadian immigration regulations, this 
advertisement is directed in the first instance to Canadian citizens and
landed immigrants, however, all qualified candidates are encouraged to apply
 
 
 
-------------------------------
Dr. Tamara L. Western
Assistant Professor
 
Department of Biology, McGill University
1205 Dr. Penfield Ave, Montreal, QC, H3A 1B1, Canada
Phone: 514-398-2574    Fax: 514-398-5069
Email: tamara.western@mcgill.ca
http://www.biology.mcgill.ca/faculty/western/
<http://www.biology.mcgill.ca/faculty/western/> 
------------------------------------------------------------------
 

