Tenure-Track Position in Cell Biology 
McGill University 
The Department of Biology at McGill University invites applications for a 
tenure-track position in cell biology. We are seeking an energetic, interactive 
individual who will complement the Department's recognized strengths, across a wide range of 
model organisms, in developmental genetics, neuroscience, biophysics, and cell 
biology.
 
The ideal applicant will employ advanced modern techniques to address 
questions of broad biological significance. The candidate will have convenient access 
to stateof-the-art imaging facilities and other major core services as a member of the 
McGill Life Sciences Complex. Applicants should possess a Ph.D. or equivalent 
degree in Biology or a related discipline, postdoctoral experience, and a 
significant track record of research excellence. The successful applicant will be expected to 
conduct a vigorous program of independent, externally funded research and to 
contribute to teaching at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. We anticipate 
that this position will be filled at the ASSISTANT PROFESSOR (tenure track) level, 
but applications from more established candidates will be considered for recruitment at the 
ASSOCIATE or FULL PROFESSOR rank. Competitive startup and equipment funding packages are available. 

Persons wishing to be considered for this position should forward via e-mail: a curriculum vitae, 
a statement of research interests, a statement of teaching interests, PDF files of major 
publications, and arrange to have three letters of reference submitted directly by e-mail to: 
recruit.biology@mcgill.ca. In the subject line, please enter Biology Faculty Search and your name. 
Acceptable file formats are Microsoft Word and PDF. 

The application deadline is December 2nd, 2011. 

All qualified applicants are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and permanent 
residents will be given priority. McGill University is committed to 
diversity and equity in employment. It welcomes applications from indigenous peoples, 
visible minorities, ethnic minorities, persons with disabilities, women, persons of 
minority sexual orientations and gender identities and others who may contribute to 
further diversification. 

