A Postdoctoral Researcher position in ecological and evolutionary genomics
is available in the research group of Dr. Noah Whiteman in the Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at The University of Arizona (
http://www.eebweb.arizona.edu/Faculty/Whiteman/). Research in the lab
focuses on host-parasite co-evolution. The primary research aims are to
identify the molecular basis and genomic architecture of host resistance,
parasite virulence and the genomic consequences of host specificity. We use
genetic and ecological models of host and parasite systems in the laboratory
and field, including Arabidopsis thaliana, Drosophila species and their wild
relatives.

We seek a creative, collaborative scientist who will help lead a comparative
genomic analysis of an herbivorous drosophilid fly that is phylogenetically
nested within the 12 genomic model Drosophila species and to work on the
genetic basis of herbivore resistance in Arabidopsis and close relatives.
The researcher will have the opportunity to participate in forward and
reverse genetic studies of host plant resistance, herbivore detoxification
and host finding mechanisms. She/he will be encouraged to attend scientific
meetings, develop an independent project that they would take with them upon
leaving the lab, and participate in collecting trips and related ecological
genomics studies in the Sonoran Desert, nearby Sky Islands and Rocky
Mountains.

Qualifications: A Ph.D. degree in biology or a related field. Training in
genome analysis, bioinformatics, molecular evolution and/or molecular
biology is preferred.

Start date: As early as January 2010, but negotiable. Salary will be
commensurate with experience and will include health insurance and other
standard benefits, including vacation time. The initial appointment will be
for one year with two additional years contingent upon satisfactory
progress.

To apply, submit an application online (position 44105):
www.uacareertrack.com/applicants/Central?quickFind=196150

Please include the names and contact information for at least three
references in your application and submit publications via email to Noah
Whiteman (noahwhiteman@gmail.com).

Review of applications begins on November 30, 2009 and will continue until
position is filled.

The University of Arizona is an Affirmative Action / Equal Opportunity
Employer and it is the policy of The University to ensure equal employment
opportunity without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, national
origin, disability, veteran's status, sexual orientation or gender identity.


At 2,500 feet above sea level, culturally diverse Tucson, Arizona is nestled
among five mountain ranges in the beautiful Sonoran Desert and is surrounded
by Saguaro National Park. Housing is affordable, quality of life is high
and outdoor recreation opportunities include the southernmost ski area in
the United States. The area receives over 350 days of sunshine per year,
average high/low temperatures are 82/54 degrees F and has two rainy seasons
per year.

The University of Arizona is a leading research-intensive university in the
Southwest and is particularly strong in insect science and genomics. The
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology is affiliated with the Center
for Insect Science.

<nwhiteman@oeb.harvard.edu> 
