ASSISTANT PROFESSOR POSITIONS PHYSIOLOGY, PLANT BIOLOGY 
The Biology Department at Seattle University seeks candidates for two tenure-track 
Assistant Professor positions starting September 2013. The Physiologist will be the 
lead instructor for a lower division anatomy and physiology series for allied health 
professions majors. The Plant Biologist will teach a lower-division course in plant 
taxonomy and an upper-division course in plant science. 

Both faculty members will develop or help instruct other courses related to their 
area of expertise, establish active research programs involving undergraduates, and 
serve as academic advisors to Biology majors. 

Applicants must have a Ph.D. and some post-doctoral experience. Physiologists with 
connections to healthcare and interests in clinical research and candidates for 
either position with interests that will enhance relationships with local 
biotechnology, biomedical or environmental research organizations are strongly 
encouraged to apply. Clear evidence of a commitment to undergraduate teaching and 
research is essential. 

Seattle University, founded in 1891, is a Jesuit Catholic university located on 48 
acres on Seattle's Capitol Hill. More than 7,700 students are enrolled in undergraduate 
and graduate programs within eight schools. U.S. News and World Report's "Best Colleges 
2012" ranks Seattle University among the top 10 universities in the West that offer a 
full range of masters and undergraduate programs. Seattle University is an equal 
opportunity employer. 

Applicants should submit materials at https://jobs.seattleu.edu, including a cover 
letter addressing how the applicant would contribute to the Biology Department, a 
curriculum vitae, contact information for three references, a statement of teaching 
philosophy and interests, a description of proposed research, and an unofficial copy 
of undergraduate and graduate transcripts. Electronic prompts to referees will be 
generated automatically once the completed application has been submitted. Application 
review will begin October 15, 2012. Inquiries regarding the positions should be directed 
to Glenn Yasuda at gyasuda@seattleu.edu<mailto:gyasuda@seattleu.edu>. 
