Postdoctoral Position in Maize/Rice Protein Biochemistry and 
  Proteomics 
  van Wijk lab, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA. 
  [1]http://cbsu.tc.cornell.edu/vanwijk/ 
 
  Experienced Plant Protein Biochemist A postdoctoral position (2-3 
  years) is available in Plant Protein Biochemistry and Proteomics to 
  work on a project sponsored by the NSF-Genome program. 
  This project concerns a cell-type specific comparative analysis of C3 
  and C4 leaf development in Rice, Sorghum and Maize. In leaves of such 
  C4 grasses photosynthetic activities are partitioned between two 
  morphologically and biochemically distinct bundle sheath (BS) and 
  mesophyll (M) cells. The objectives are to compare the quantitative 
  and qualitative patterns of transcripts, proteins, metabolic 
  activities and anatomy at discrete stages and in specific cell types 
  in rice (C3), maize and sorghum (C4), and to develop a model of the 
  regulatory networks governing C4 anatomy and function. These 
  experimental datasets will be linked by new informatics tools for 
  comparative transcriptional and proteome analysis, to provide the 
  foundation for a systems biology approach to understanding C4 biology. 
  The responsibilities of the postdoc include isolation of cell-type 
  specific proteomes, protein separation and proteome analysis, as well 
  as biological interpretation of these large scale datasets. Experience 
  in plant protein biochemistry (with a proven track record) and a 
  strong interest in plant metabolism, leaf growth, development and 
  systems biology is required. Experience with nanoLC-Electrospray 
  tandem Mass Spectrometry (e.g. LTQ, Q-TOF or LTQ-Orbitrap) is 
  beneficial. The postdoc will work closely together with other team 
  members, including mass spectrometry specialists and 
  bioinformaticians. Salary will be commensurate with experience with 
  generous employee benefits according the Cornell Human Resource 
  Office.  Review of applications will begin immediately, and continue 
  until the position is filled. 
  Application Instructions: Send your curriculum vitae, a statement of 
  research interests and career goals, representative publications, and 
  three letters of reference by email to: [2]kv35@cornell.edu  Klaas J. 
  van Wijk, Associate Professor, Dept of Plant Biology, Cornell 
  University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA; tel +1-607-255-3664; 
  [3]http://cbsu.tc.cornell.edu/vanwijk/ 
 
  Relevant papers from the van Wijk lab: 
  Majeran W., Zybailov B., Ytterberg A.J., Dunsmore J., Sun Q.and van 
  Wijk K.J. (2008) Consequences of C4 differentiation for chloroplast 
  membrane proteomes in maize mesophyll and bundle sheath cells. Mol 
  Cell Proteomics - pre-publication online - 
  Covshoff S., Majeran W., Liu P., Kolkman J.M., van Wijk K.J.and 
  Brutnell T.P. (2008) Deregulation of maize c4 photosynthetic 
  development in a mesophyll cell-defective mutant. Plant Physiol 146: 
  1469-1481. 
  Majeran W., Cai Y., Sun Q.and van Wijk K.J. (2005) Functional 
  Differentiation of Bundle Sheath and Mesophyll Maize Chloroplasts 
  Determined by Comparative Proteomics. The Plant Cell 17: 3111-3140.
