Postdoctoral Scholar Position in Wildermuth Lab at University of
California, Berkeley: Host mechanisms underlying the sustained
growth and reproduction of a plant obligate biotroph

The Department of Plant and Microbial Biology at The University of
California, Berkeley invites applications for a full-time NSF-funded
Postdoctoral Scholar - Employee position starting Summer/early Fall
2010. The successful candidate will employ state-of-art molecular
genetic, cell biology, biochemical, and bioinformatic approaches to
elucidate regulatory networks controlling host processes required for
the sustained growth and reproduction of powdery mildew on
Arabidopsis thaliana, building on work described in Chandran et al.
(2010) PNAS 107: 460-5. As part of this research, we found nuclear
ploidy increased in host mesophyll cells underlying the infected
epidermal cell. Abrogation of induced endoreduplication resulted in
reduced growth of the powdery mildew suggesting it is required to
meet the enhanced metabolic demands imposed by the fungus. Sugar
metabolism is also altered at the infection site, with conversion of
these cells from a carbon source to sink. Given the induced and
localized nature of this system, controls over fundamental processes
such as the cell cycle and sugar metabolism can be elucidated with
minimal pleiotropic or developmental impacts.
  Position Qualifications: Ph.D. in genetics, cell biology,
molecular biology, biochemistry or related discipline is required, as
is molecular cloning experience. Applicants with research experience
investigating the cell cycle or sugar metabolism and regulation are
particularly encouraged to apply. Successful applicants will be
highly motivated, independent, and with excellent written and oral
communication skills. Salary is commensurate with experience and
qualifications. Appointments at UC Berkeley are for one year subject
to renewal. NSF funding covers three years.

Applicants should submit a cover letter, CV, summary of research
experience, and contact information for three references via email to
Dr. Mary C. Wildermuth at mwildermuth@berkeley.edu. Applications
received before June 15, 2010 will be considered. The University of
California is an Equal Opportunity / Affirmative Action Employer. 
