Postdoctoral Scholar - Position at the University of California, Berkeley.

The Department of Plant and Microbial Biology at the University of California, Berkeley has an immediate 
opening for a Postdoctoral Scholar - Employee.  A doctoral degree in cell biology or molecular biology 
(or related discipline) is required as is experience with plant microscopy and microtechnique.  Experience 
with transcriptional profiling is advantageous.  Salary range is $31,668 - $42,780 depending on qualifications.  
Applicants must have received their Ph.D. within the last five years.  The closing date for the receipt of 
applications is Sep. 5, 2006.
This position, which is funded by an NSF grant, is appointed on yearly basis, with the possibility of renewal.  
The NSF project "Deriving the gene circuitry and network motifs of the Arabidopsis defense response" 
involves dissecting the molecular basis of the Arabidopsis - powdery mildew interaction at the single cell 
level. The successful applicant will continue our work using laser microdissection to isolate single 
populations of infected and neighboring cells throughout the progression of infection, and extract and 
amplify the mRNA for global expression profiling using Affymetrix ATH1 GeneChips.  Analysis of the microarray 
data is performed in conjunction with Co-PI Terry Speed (Statistics, Berkeley).  For more information on this 
project see http://pmb.berkeley.edu/~wildermu/nsf.html.  Applicants should submit a resume and a summary of 
research experience via email to Dr. Mary Wildermuth at wildermuth@nature.berkeley.edu or by mail to Dr. 
Mary Wildermuth, Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, 111 Koshland Hall, University of California, 
Berkeley, CA 94720-3102.  Three confidential letters of reference should be sent under separate cover.  
Please refer referees to the University's statement on confidentiality, found at: 
http://apo.chance.berkeley.edu/evalltr.html.  Minorities and women encouraged to apply.  
University of California is an EOE/AAE.

-- 
Mary C. Wildermuth, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor
University of California
Department of Plant and Microbial Biology
221 Koshland Hall #3102
Berkeley, CA 94720-3102

wildermuth@nature.berkeley.edu
phone:  510-643-4861 (office)
phone:  510-643-4862 (lab)
fax:     510-642-4995

