Graduate Assistantships in:
Molecular Genetics of Wood Development 
and 
Forest Genetics/Climate Change Mitigation


Prestigious van Eck Scholarships are available to graduate students (M.S. or Ph.D.) seeking training 
in the molecular genetics of wood development or in forest genetics/climate change mitigation.  
Students studying wood development will join a research team dedicated to understanding the genetic 
regulation of heartwood formation, the final stage in xylem differentiation.  Students studying 
forest genetics/climate change mitigation will join a research team that will use next-generation 
genetic approaches to understand how to manage forest tree species for long-term growth and survival 
in changing climates. Van Eck scholars have been highly successful upon graduation, finding career 
options in both academia and private industry. Research will take place at The Hardwood Tree 
Improvement and Regeneration Center (HTIRC) at Purdue University. 
  
Qualifications: Candidates should have well developed quantitative skills and knowledge and 
experience in biological sciences such as biology, molecular biology, forestry, horticulture, botany, 
genetics, or plant physiology. Candidates should have a GPA of at least 3.2 and a top-tier GRE score. 
Students not chosen for van Eck Scholarships may be eligible for acceptance into the Purdue 
Partnership for Research & Education in Plant Breeding and Genetics.
  
Assistantships will be awarded at $18,000 (M.S.) and $20,500 (Ph.D.) per year. In addition, an annual 
research budget ($10,000) will be available for research support and a laptop computer will be 
provided for the duration of the scholarship. 
  
Applications or Additional Information: For fall semester, (August 2011), applications must be 
received by November 12, 2010 (M.S. and Ph.D.). Applicants must mail a short (one page) letter of 
interest, resume, cumulative GPA, GRE scores, TOEFL scores (international students only) and names 
and letters from three references to Dr. Keith Woeste (woeste@purdue.edu or kwoeste@fs.fed.us ).  
Please see our web page HTIRC.org for more information. If selected for a van Eck Scholarship, we 
will notify you to make formal application to Purdue University. 
  
About us: HTIRC is a collaborative regional research organization of industry, state and federal 
agency and university partners, administratively located in the Department of Forestry and Natural 
Resources at Purdue University . Its purpose is to improve the genetic quality and regeneration 
success of North American hardwood tree species. 

Purdue University is an equal opportunity-affirmative action employer
