Thank you for your interest in career opportunities with Seminis. At Seminis, a division of 
Monsanto, we are committed to recruiting and retaining the best individuals through our team-
oriented culture that encourages creativity, decision-making, and entrepreneurial spirit. Seminis is 
the largest developer, grower and marketer of fruit and vegetable seeds in the world. We lead the 
development of hybrids that improve nutrition, boost crop yields, limit spoilage and reduce the 
need of chemicals. Research is the heart of Seminis and its future as we are committed to 
consistently introducing innovative products for our customers. It's amazing to consider that 
improving human health, promoting environmental stewardship and fostering greater economic 
growth for the agricultural community can all start with something as small as a seed.

Seminis has an exciting opportunity at our Woodland, CA location for a POST DOCTORAL 
RESEARCHER. We are seeking an enthusiastic individual to support research in the 
identification of molecular markers linked to economically important traits in vegetable crops. The 
successful candidate will have an opportunity to interact, excel, and grow in the company of 
experts in number of areas ranging from molecular biology, bioinformatics, biostatistics and plant 
breeding. Responsibilities for this role will include traditional molecular biology applications, such 
as cloning and sequencing, as well as developing and leveraging the power of next generation 
sequencing, highly multiplexed genotyping and microarray based genotyping. Additionally the 
candidate will also work with Plant Breeders or New Trait Developers to execute studies to 
establish marker-trait associations. This role requires strong attention to detail, ability to work in a 
team environment and facilitate complex projects under the direction of the marker discovery lead 
scientist.

The successful candidate will possess or will be acquiring in the next 6 months, a PhD in 
Genetics or related field.  Experience with standard molecular biology tools and techniques 
including DNA extraction, PCR, recombinant DNA techniques, sequencing and sequence 
analysis are required. Exceptional teamwork and well documented written and verbal 
communication skills are a must, as is a commanding knowledge and experience with publicly 
available genomic resources. There is less than 10% travel time for this role and relocation 
benefits are available for qualified candidates. 

Sound understanding of bioinformatics and computational analysis is highly desirable. The ability 
to analyze and process large and complex datasets is desirable and candidates with experience 
in applying next generation sequencing to genetic analysis are a plus.

At Seminis, we offer a highly comp. salary & benefits pkg. w/career development opportunities! 
Apply online at the Career website www.monsanto.com & select req. #mons-00009175. 
Monsanto is an EOE. We value diversity.
