Plant Molecular Geneticist
Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge TN

The Environmental Sciences Division of Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) is seeking a plant 
molecular geneticist to contribute to our plant genetics research program which is focused on 
ecological and environmental applications of plant genetics and genomics.  The candidate will 
join a team of scientists actively working on functional plant genomics with an emphasis on 
characterizing genes and gene networks associated with carbon allocation and partitioning, 
plant responses to global climate change, and development of domesticated biofuels feedstocks.  
Opportunities are available to identify candidate genes and undertake functional gene analysis 
using emerging tools of plant genomics.  Such studies may be conducted under rigorously controlled 
laboratory conditions or in natural plant populations.  Activities within natural plant populations 
might involve the use of modern-day genomics to better understand molecular basis of adaptive 
variation in woody perennials.

The ideal candidate will have demonstrated expertise in molecular genetics and/or bioinformatics.  
A stated interest in modern molecular ecology and experience with Arabidopsis or Populus 
genetics/genomics will be viewed favorably. The candidate would be expected to initiate his or 
her own research projects in addition to participating with ESD staff on existing projects.

The ORNL plant genomics staff has a history of research in ecological genetics, quantitative 
genetic and molecular mapping, and biochemical plant physiology, particularly as they relate to 
basic forest biology (http://www.esd.ornl.gov/PGG). The successful candidate will have access to 
advanced computational resources and recently established genomics and mass spectrometry 
facilities present at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory.  In addition the successful candidate 
will have the opportunity to collaboratively interact with researchers around the world in 
on-going joint Populus genomics projects (http://www.ornl.gov/sci/ipgc), and to initiate and 
participate in other large-scale genomics projects.

Experience and Education Requirements

Ph.D. in plant molecular genetics.  Ideal applicant would have experience with molecular biology, 
quantitative genetics, and bioinformatics, and would be comfortable working in a multi-disciplinary 
environment.  Strong written and oral skills, and the ability to work as part of a team, are critical. 
This position may be offered as a staff position or as a post doc depending on the applicant’s experience. 

To apply for this position, candidates should go to the ORNL website (www.ornl.gov), click 
on the "Jobs" category and then "ORNL Employment." Under "Scientific/Tech Staff/Mgmt," look for 
Posting #050761. Qualified candidates should submit a complete CV and publication list, 
a statement of research interests, and the names of at least three references by attaching a file. 
All three components must be included in a single file. The system will not accept multiple files. 
Questions about the position may be referred to Dr. Robin L. Graham GrahamRL@ORNL.gov  865-576-7756.  
Applications will be accepted until October 30, 2005. ORNL is managed by UT-Battelle, 
LLC for the US Department of Energy.  UT-Battelle is committed to Equal Employment Opportunity 
for all persons.


