Ecosystem Genomics
Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge TN

The Environmental Sciences Division of Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) is seeking a plant 
ecologist or molecular biologist interested in contributing to a research program focused on the 
interface of ecology and genomics.  The candidate will join an enthusiastic team of scientists 
actively working to integrate emerging tools of plant and microbial genomics (i.e., microarrays, 
proteomics, metabolomics) into ecosystem studies, with a special emphasis on better understanding
the functional significance of genes and genomes in an ecological context.  The area of research 
and the organism(s) to be studied are open, but strong preference will be given to applicants whose 
research program integrates processes at the genomic level with the ecology of organisms.  The 
successful candidate will have the opportunity to develop an independent research program in 
ecosystem genomics; moreover they will have the opportunity to participate in an ongoing project 
that is addressing how a single-gene change in an important biological process (i.e. nitrate 
assimilation) translates across multiple levels of biological organization to produce detectable 
and predictable responses at the ecosystem level (http://www.esd.ornl.gov/PGG/HERMES ).

The ideal candidate will have demonstrated expertise in plant molecular biology and/or ecology 
with specific interest in highly parallel methods (e.g., microarrays), integration of biology and 
ecology at multiple temporal and spatial scales, and theoretical/empirical modeling.  A stated 
interest in modern molecular ecology and experience with model (Arabidopsis and Populus) and 
non-model organisms will be viewed favorably.  The candidate would be expected to initiate his 
or her own research projects in addition to participating with ESD staff on existing projects.

The ORNL plant and ecosystem sciences staff has a history of research in global change studies 
and in understanding mechanistic relationships between multiple levels of biological organization 
(i.e., genes to ecosystems).  The successful candidate will have access to advanced field facilities, 
world-class computational resources, and recently established genomics and mass spectrometry facilities 
present at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. The position will also offer the opportunity to initiate 
and participate in large-scale genomics and proteomics projects.

Experience and Education Requirements

Ph.D. in plant molecular biology and/or ecology and demonstrated expertise in the use of functional 
genomic, proteomic, and/or other molecular techniques to investigate ecological processes.  Strong 
written and oral skills, and the ability to work as part of a team, are critical. 

To apply for this position, candidates should go to the ORNL website (www.ornl.gov), click on the 
"Jobs" category and then "ORNL Employment." Under "Scientific/Tech Staff/Mgmt," look for Posting 
#050762.  Qualified candidates should submit a complete CV and publication list, a statement of 
research interests, and the names of at least three references by attaching a file.  All three 
components must be included in a single file. The system will not accept multiple files.   
Applications will be accepted until Oct. 30, 2005. Questions about the position may be referred to 
Dr. Robin L. Graham at GrahamRL@ORNL.gov  865-576-7756.  ORNL is managed by UT-Battelle, LLC for 
the US Department of Energy. UT-Battelle is committed to Equal Employment Opportunity for all persons.

