Tenure Track Faculty Positions at the Department of Cell Biology and 
Molecular Genetics, University of Maryland 

The Department of Cell Biology and Molecular Genetics at the University of 
Maryland College Park is seeking outstanding candidates to fill two 
Assistant Professor positions in each of the following research areas: 
1. Functional RNA. Areas of interest include but are not limited to 
non-coding RNAs involved in the regulation of gene expression, epigenetics 
and development, using microbial, plant, insect and mammalian systems, with 
emphasis on approaches involving cell biology, biophysics, bioinformatics, 
and/or genomics. 
2. Host-Pathogen Interactions. Areas of interest include but are not limited 
to molecular mechanisms of virulence and resistance to pathogens of plants, 
fungi, insects or other model organisms, with emphasis on approaches 
involving genetics, cell biology, bioinformatics, and/or genomics. 
These appointments will be part of an ongoing campus drive for enhancement 
in the life sciences. Successful candidates will be expected to maintain a 
vigorous, externally funded research program and to participate in 
undergraduate and graduate teaching. Applicants must have a doctorate 
degree, relevant postdoctoral experience, an outstanding publication record 
and a commitment to excellence in teaching. Additional information about the 
department can be found at: http://www.life.umd.edu/CBMG. 
The University of Maryland, College Park is the flagship campus of the 
University System of Maryland and one of the most rapidly advancing public 
research universities in the country. The Department offers outstanding new 
research facilities and a highly interactive environment, with extensive 
opportunities to interact with scientists affiliated with other Departments, 
Centers and Institutes at the University of Maryland. Close proximity to 
Washington DC, Baltimore, and the Maryland Biotechnology Corridor 
facilitates interactions with an extraordinary range of major research 
institutions such as NIH, NIST, FDA and USDA, in addition to providing a 
rich cultural environment. 
Applicants should apply electronically to one of the following at 
https://jobs.umd.edu specifying either (1) Functional RNA - Dr. Jonathan 
Dinman, Search Committee Chair (position # 116703) OR (2) Host-Pathogen 
Interactions - Dr. Steven Hutcheson, Search Committee Chair (position 
#116704). Applications should consist of a single PDF file containing (1) a 
letter of application, (2) curriculum vitae, and (3) summary of research 
plans and teaching interests. 
For full consideration, four recommendation letters should be sent 
separately. Complete applications should be received by October 31, 2010, 
but will be accepted until the positions are filled. 
The University of Maryland is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity 
Employer. Women and members of underrepresented groups are especially 
encouraged to apply. 
