The Department of Molecular Ecology headed by Professor Ian Baldwin at the 
Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology is offering a postdoctoral 
position in plant genomics and bioinformatics. 

/Nicotiana attenuata/ (common name Coyote tobacco) has been developed as an 
ecological model plant for plant-herbivore interactions, and its 
sophisticated herbivore-induced direct and indirect defenses have been 
intensively investigated during the last 20 years (for more information see: 
http://ice.mpg.de/ext/**molecular-ecology.html&lt;http://ice.mpg.de/ext/molecular-ecology.html&gt;). 
To further understand the genomic basis of plant defense mechanisms and 
other adaptations of this remarkable plant to its native habitat (the Great 
Basin Desert), the Department (in collaboration with the Max Planck 
Institute of Molecular Genetics in Berlin) is currently sequencing the 
complete genome of /N. attenuata/ (estimated size 2.5 Gb), as well as a 
near relative (/N. obtusifolia/) and multiple herbivory-elicited 
time-course transcriptomes of these two species, near relatives and 
allopolyploid relatives. 

The main tasks of the candidate will be to contribute to the analysis of 
/Nicotiana/ genomes together with other researchers from the genomics team 
in the Department and help to build tools that will assist people in the 
group to optimally use the genome and transcriptome data. 

The candidate should have strong background in bioinformatics, 
computational biology, and computational analysis of next-generation 
sequences (NGS). Experience in database design and construction is a plus. 
The candidate should be experienced in at least one programming languages, 
such as Perl, Python or Java/C++. Experience in Linux system administration 
and facilities operations is preferred. 

The Max Planck Society offers a competitive fellowship, with a duration of 
3 years starting May 2013. The opportunity for a German scale salary (TVL-D 
13) will depend on the candidates' profile. The postdoctoral fellow will be 
part of the Max Planck Postdoctoral Network, which offers trainings and 
science communication opportunities. 

Jena is a University town in the center of Germany, with an international 
student community and good transport connections to other cities (Berlin, 
Dresden and Munich). 

Application review process will begin on the 10^th January 2013 and 
continue until position is filled. In case of the (TVL-D 13) position the 
deadline for application is the 20^th of January. 

If you are interested in this position, please send a CV, a description of 
research interests and contact information of 2-3 referees to Prof. Ian 
Baldwin (baldwin@ice.mpg.de). 

For further information, please contact Dr. Shuqing Xu (sxu@ice.mpg.de) or 
Dr. Aura Navarro (anavarro@ice.mpg.de) 