Postdoctoral Research Associate in Plant Genomics and Biochemistry 
Oak Ridge National Laboratory 
Oak Ridge, TN 
ORNL11-11-BSD 

Project Description: 
The selected candidate will join an international team of 
investigators to develop new crops for biofuel production. The project 
focuses on a deep understanding of molecular control of CAM 
(Crassulacean Acid Metabolism) pathway to inform genetic improvement 
of bioenergy crops for sustainable biofuel production. The research is 
facilitated by a full range of state-of-the-art equipments/facilities 
ranging from new modern greenhouse/growth chamber to Roche-454 and 
Illumina HiSeq 2000 sequencing platforms, along with excellent 
technical support. 

Qualifications: 
Ph.D. degree in biochemistry, molecular biology, plant physiology, or 
related fields. Principal requirement: demonstrated expertise in at 
least two of the four areas: CAM pathway, gene expression, protein 
expression, and signal transduction. Previous experience working with 
CAM plants such as Agave is desirable. Preference will be given to 
candidates with a relevant publication record. Excellent oral and 
written communication skills and ability to work in a team are 
required. 
Applicants cannot have received the most recent degree more than five 
years prior to the date of application and must complete all degree 
requirements before starting their appointment. 

Technical Questions: 
Questions regarding the position can be directed to Xiaohan Yang at 
yangx@ornl.gov. 

How to Apply: 
Qualified applicants must apply online at 
https://www2.orau.gov/ORNL_POST/. All applicants will need to register 
before they can begin the online application. For complete 
instructions, on how to apply, please see the instructions at 
http://www.orau.gov/orise/edu/ornl/ornl-pdpm/application.htm. When 
applying for this position, reference the position title (Postdoctoral 
Research Associate in Plant Genomics and Biochemistry) and number 
(ORNL11-11-BSD). 
This appointment is offered through the ORNL Postgraduate Research 
Participation Program and is administered by the Oak Ridge Institute 
for Science and Education (ORISE). The program is open to all 
qualified U.S. and non-U.S. citizens without regard to race, color, 
age, religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental disability, or 
status as a Vietnam-era veteran or disabled veteran. 
