Two Research Scientist or postdoctoral Positions in C4 and ePlant projects

Two postdoctoral scientist, assistant professor or associate professor positions are available now 
in the Plant Systems Biology research group (http://www.picb.ac.cn/PSB/) at the Partner Institute 
of Computational Biology (PICB). The Plant Systems Biology group is working on two specific 
projects: ePlant project and the C4 rice project. The ultimate goal of the ePlant project is to 
develop an in silico model of plant growth and development. The ultimate goal of the C4 rice project 
is to engineer the C4 photosynthetic metabolism into rice, which holds great promises to 
dramatically increase crop productivity. 

We are looking for talented scientists to join the team to expand our research in any of the 
following listed research areas: 

C4 rice project (in collaboration with other labs as part of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation 
funded C4 rice projects: http://beta.irri.org/projects15/c4rice): 
-Developing novel bioinformatics algorithms to utilize next generation sequencing and proteomics 
data to identify novel regulatory elements (transcription factors, microRNAs, etc) involved in C4 
development. 
-Developing 3dimensional spatial models of C4 developmental process and analyze mechanisms of cell 
fate determination in C4 photosynthesis. 
-Comparative genomics/transcriptomics studies of C4 evolution/development

ePlant project:
-Developing novel numerical algorithms to model plant growth and development process with detailed 
consideration of multi-scale and multi-physics features. 
-Developing an integrated leaf model with detailed description of the metabolism, CO2 diffusion 
process, water movements inside a realistic leaf anatomical structure. 
-Study the role of photorespiratory bypass in plant primary metaboilsm

The applicants will work mostly in the CAS-MPG Partner Institute for Computational Biology (PICB) 
in Shanghai. The experiments required by the research will be generated by experimental biologists 
in our lab residing in the Shanghai Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology (SIPPE) or our 
collaborators' lab around the world. 

The candidate will work in a highly interdisciplinary environment. Though strong expertise in plant 
biology (photosynthesis or crop yield related field in particular), computational biology, 
bioinformatics, applied mathematics, statistics or numerical computing is preferred, demonstrated 
excellence in research and reasonable background in mathematics will qualify to apply for these 
positions. The research team has regular seminar and course series to train scientists to become 
acquainted with the required computational techniques. Given that the candidate will work in a 
highly interactive research team, candidates with demonstrated ability to organize a coherent 
research team or with good team spirit are highly preferred.  The official language in the lab is 
English; so fluency in spoken and written English is preferred. 

If you are interested, please e-mail Ms YuJing Sun (mapkk@163.com) an application including your 
research interests/plans, resume, contact information for two references, and reprints of two  
representative publications.  The position will be open until qualified candidate(s) are identified. 

Contact information: 
Ms YuJing Sun (mapkk@163.com)

