Two Postdoctoral Positions, Arabidopsis, National Taiwan University.

1) A three-year postdoctoral position is available in Laurent Zimmerli?s lab at 
the National Taiwan University in Taipei. The position is available immediately. 
We are interested in Arabidopsis stress perception. The chemical beta amino-
butyric acid (BABA) enhances Arabidopsis stress resistance by potentiating plant 
defense mechanisms, a still poorly understood phenomenon called ?priming?. BABA-
priming is a general mechanism (i.e. observed during the response to unrelated 
stresses). The research will focus on the characterization of newly discovered 
genes involved in BABA-priming. The candidate should have a good understanding 
of plant stress and developmental biology. Candidates with strong skills in 
Arabidopsis molecular genetics are preferred. Proven ability to write scientific 
papers is desirable. Chinese language skills are NOT required and international 
scientists are encouraged to apply.

2) We are also looking for a candidate willing to apply for a two-year 
postdoctoral position in Laurent Zimmerli?s lab through a grant application. To 
maximize grant application success the candidate should have published (or 
accepted for publication) at least one article as first author in an 
international peer reviewed journal (IF > 4). The project involves the 
characterization of Arabidopsis mutant(s) defective in nonhost resistance. 
Applicants must have expertise in plant pathology and molecular genetics. The 
working language in the lab is English, thus international scientists are 
encouraged to apply.

The National Taiwan University is the most renowned university in Taiwan and 
provides excellent conditions for research. This university is located in 
Taipei, a vibrant and amazing city. Taiwan offers great recreation opportunities 
such as mountain hiking, snorkeling and nice beaches.

For further information please check out our website at 
http://plantbio.lifescience.ntu.edu.tw/english/zimmerli.htm

Contact person:

Laurent Zimmerli
Assistant Professor
National Taiwan University
Institute of Plant Biology
Rm 1150, Life Science Building
No. 1, Sec. 4, Roosevelt Road
Taipei 106
Taiwan

Email: lauzim2@ntu.edu.tw
Phone: +886-2-3366 9659



