Biological Science Technician

 SALARY RANGE: 39,330.00 - 62,546.00 USD per year   OPEN PERIOD: Tuesday, 
May 27, 2008
 to Tuesday, June 17, 2008
 SERIES & GRADE: GS-0404-07/07   POSITION INFORMATION: Full Time 
Career/Career-Conditional
 PROMOTION POTENTIAL: 09   DUTY LOCATIONS:   few vacancies - Suitland, MD
 WHO MAY BE CONSIDERED:
Citizens or nationals of the United States.

This position is also being announced under
Agency Merit Promotion, Ann# 08A-RB-294018-MPA-NMNH.


To apply, go to USAjobs.gov and search on "NMNH botany"   For more information, 
contact Liz Zimmer at zimmerl@si.edu, Ken Wurdack at wurdackk@si.edu, Jun Wen at 
wenj@si.edu, Lee Weigt at weigtl@si.edu, Warren Wagner at wagnerw@si.edu, 
funkv@si.edu or kressj@si.edu .



JOB SUMMARY:

The Smithsonian Institution is a unique working
and learning environment that offers you
continuing awareness of the world's treasures in
culture, art, and science.   If your goals
include challenging work, being a valued member
of an organization, and participation in
exciting opportunities of exploration, become a
part of our staff.  Enjoy family friendly
benefits; a complimentary membership to the
Resident Associate Program with discounts on
thousands of educational and cultural programs
offered annually; discounts at Smithsonian
membership programs, shops, and restaurants; and
much more!


This position is located in National Museum of Natural History,
Laboratories of Analytical Biology (LAB).  The purpose of this
position is to assist with the development of molecular genetic
research and laboratory protocols.  This position would be especially suitable for recent 
undergraduates or graduate students.


KEY REQUIREMENTS:

U.S. Citizenship or U.S. National status required.
Post-appointment background investigation is required.
You will be required to serve a one-year probationary period.
This position has a career progression to GS-404-8/GS-404-9


 MAJOR DUTIES:

The duties of this position include, but are not limited to the
following:
- Conducts plant DNA isolations.
- Performs polymerase chain reactions (PCR) in laboratory.
- Analyzes PCR and DNA sequence products.
- Completes AFLP, DNA fragment, microsatellite and primer work.
- Conducts computer analysis of molecular data.
- Performs initial estimation of genetic differentiation in
species or populations.
- Carries out molecular genetic laboratory experiments pertinent to
various research projects of the laboratory and Department of Botany
Scientists.
- Assists in the training of students, interns and other
laboratory staff.
