Three postdoctoral positions are available to study PAMP perception and signalling in 
the plant model Arabidopsis thaliana. 
 
The Sainsbury Laboratory is a charitable company of ~70 research scientists and 
support staff and a world leader in plant science. We are based on the Norwich 
Research Park, funded by the Gatsby Charitable Foundation, and closely linked to 
University of East Anglia and the John Innes Centre. For more information visit 
www.tsl.ac.uk 
 
The leucine-rich repeat receptor kinases EFR and FLS2 mediate recognition of the 
bacterial PAMPs EF-Tu and flagellin, or their peptide surrogates flg22 and elf18 
respectively. Despite the critical role of PRRs in anti-microbial immunity, only limited 
knowledge exists on how they function at the molecular level and on their downstream 
signalling events. Our lab aims at filling this gap. 
 
Positions for the following projects are available from April 1, 2009: 
 
Project 1 – Characterization of EFR-interacting proteins (EIPs) and their role in innate 
immunity. This project is funded for 36 months and is part of the ERA-NET Plant 
Genomics project “Pathonet”. 
 
Project 2 – Identification and characterization of new PAMP receptors. This project is 
funded for 36 months and is part of the ERA-NET Plant Genomics project “PRRCROP”. 
 
Project 3 – Map-based cloning and characterization of ELFIN (elf18-insensitive) genes. 
This project, which is a collaboration with the Jones Laboratory, is funded for 14 
months and is part of the ERA-NET Plant Genomics project “RLPRLKs”. 
 
For information on the ERA-NET Plant Genomics projects visit www.erapg.org 
 
Candidates should be highly motivated individuals with a PhD degree together with a 
strong background in molecular biology, biochemistry or genetics. Previous work on 
plant/pathogen interactions or Arabidopsis is not required, but can be an advantage. 
Salary will be within the UEA Research and Analogous staff Grade 1A scale at 
between £28,290 and £33,780 pa; the appointment level will reflect qualifications, 
skills, knowledge and achievements. 
 
Applicants should provide a CV, including the names and contact details of two 
referees, and a covering letter addressing the selection criteria. Please send formal 
applications, quoting the reference number below, either by e-mail to HR@tsl.ac.uk or 
by post to Kim Blanchflower, HR Manager, The Sainsbury Laboratory, The John Innes 
Centre, Norwich Research Park, Colney, Norwich NR4 7UH, UK. 
 
Although the advert states March 20th as the original application deadline, the positions will be 
available until filled. 

